How we safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping COVID-19 out. How to create a QR code poster for visitors using NZ COVID Tracer. As we recover from the effects of COVID-19, financial pressures are a reality. Help is available. --- Section Separator --- The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- Fast and effective contact tracing is one way we can all work together to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Washing your hands continues to be one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Help your community stay resilient and connected. Back local businesses by buying locally made products from NZ-owned companies. Explore the amazing places that are just around the corner...
Learn about the information we collect about visits to this website. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions, or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the information we collect about visits to this website. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions, or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Contact and feedback --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. For advice you can contact the free government helplines. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Level 1 means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) If you have questions about the NZ COVID Tracer app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz . You can send feedback about covid19.govt.nz by emailing or sending a letter to us. Please include a link to the webpages that you have feedback about. Email: covid19web@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 website COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand You can get in touch with the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. Please include a link to the webpages that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- For advice you can contact the free government helplines. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Level 1 means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have questions about the NZ COVID Tracer app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz . --- Section Separator --- You can send feedback about covid19.govt.nz by emailing or sending a letter to us. Please include a link to the webpages that you have feedback about. Email: covid19web@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 website COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can get in touch with the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. Please include a link to the webpages that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of the device the pages accessed on our site and the links clicked on the date and time the site was visited the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this site the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on the device used the type of web browser used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of the device the pages accessed on our site and the links clicked on the date and time the site was visited the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this site the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on the device used the type of web browser used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and feedback Archive
Discover the help available for businesses and learn about best practice. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Because of COVID-19 financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. --- Section Separator --- Discover the help available for businesses and learn about best practice. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Because of COVID-19 financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress.
Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. A free helpline is available for all New Zealand businesses. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. A free helpline is available for all New Zealand businesses. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
Home Business, work and money Business Business helpline and resources --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Alert Level 1 means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. For specialist business advice for Maori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you navigate to find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Alert Level 1 means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. --- Section Separator --- For specialist business advice for Maori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you navigate to find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster How to operate safely Help finding new employees Business helpline and resources Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. At Alert Level 1, venues or premises that have visitors and customers no longer need to record or  hold records of people’s movement on their premises. But, businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app called NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where someone has scanned so they know where they have been. You can create QR code posters for your premises using the self-service form on the Ministry of Health website. Create your QR code poster (external link) If you have questions about NZ COVID Tracer, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email tracingapp-feedback@health.govt.nz . How to download NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, venues or premises that have visitors and customers no longer need to record or  hold records of people’s movement on their premises. But, businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app called NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where someone has scanned so they know where they have been. You can create QR code posters for your premises using the self-service form on the Ministry of Health website. Create your QR code poster (external link) If you have questions about NZ COVID Tracer, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email tracingapp-feedback@health.govt.nz . How to download NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster How to operate safely Help finding new employees Business helpline and resources Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Help finding new employees --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities, and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities, and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster How to operate safely Help finding new employees Business helpline and resources Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business How to operate safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, businesses are able to operate with no restrictions in place, but it is important to maintain hygiene practices. If workers are sick or have symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home. More information about when to stay home At Alert Level 1, venues or premises that have visitors and customers should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about contact tracing Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, businesses are able to operate with no restrictions in place, but it is important to maintain hygiene practices. If workers are sick or have symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home. More information about when to stay home At Alert Level 1, venues or premises that have visitors and customers should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about contact tracing Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster How to operate safely Help finding new employees Business helpline and resources Financial support for business
Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19 financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19 financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.

Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The Wage Subsidy Scheme will help employers recover from the effects of COVID-19. The scheme helps employers to keep their staff employed and ensures an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) A Wage Subsidy Extension payment is available to support employers, including sole traders, who are still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ends. It supports employers to continue to pay your employees. The Wage Subsidy Extension will be available to employers for 8 weeks, between 10 June 2020 and 1 September 2020, so you can keep paying your employees. It will be paid to you as a lump sum at the same weekly rate as the Wage Subsidy. Employers can apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension once you have finished paying your employees the original 12 week Wage Subsidy. To be eligible, your business must have had a revenue loss of at least 40% for a continuous 30 day period. This period needs to be in the 40 days before you apply, but no earlier than 10 May 2020, and must be compared to the closest period last year. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme to protect jobs and support the economy to recover. Participating approved banks will provide targeted new loans or increase limits to existing loans for eligible businesses, to help them recover. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Company directors facing significant liquidity problems can also seek a safe harbour from sections 135 and 136 of the Companies Act 1993. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will help employers recover from the effects of COVID-19. The scheme helps employers to keep their staff employed and ensures an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) A Wage Subsidy Extension payment is available to support employers, including sole traders, who are still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ends. It supports employers to continue to pay your employees. The Wage Subsidy Extension will be available to employers for 8 weeks, between 10 June 2020 and 1 September 2020, so you can keep paying your employees. It will be paid to you as a lump sum at the same weekly rate as the Wage Subsidy. Employers can apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension once you have finished paying your employees the original 12 week Wage Subsidy. To be eligible, your business must have had a revenue loss of at least 40% for a continuous 30 day period. This period needs to be in the 40 days before you apply, but no earlier than 10 May 2020, and must be compared to the closest period last year. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme to protect jobs and support the economy to recover. Participating approved banks will provide targeted new loans or increase limits to existing loans for eligible businesses, to help them recover. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Company directors facing significant liquidity problems can also seek a safe harbour from sections 135 and 136 of the Companies Act 1993. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals in NZ Financial support for businesses
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, mortgage, board, emergency housing repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) The Wage Subsidy Scheme helps employees working for businesses suffering from the effects of COVID-19. The scheme helps to keep people employed and ensures an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) A Wage Subsidy Extension payment is available to support workers, including sole traders, who are still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ends. It supports employers to continue to pay their employees. The Wage Subsidy Extension will be available for 8 weeks, between 10 June 2020 and 1 September 2020. It will be paid at the same weekly rate as the Wage Subsidy. Employers can apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension once they have finished paying their employees the original 12 week Wage Subsidy. To be eligible, your business must have had a revenue loss of at least 40% for a continuous 30 day period. This period needs to be in the 40 days before you apply, but no earlier than 10 May 2020, and must be compared to the closest period last year. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) The COVID-19 Income Relief Payment is another option for people who have recently lost their jobs. You may be eligible if you lost your job (including self-employment) from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19. You can get up to 12 weeks of payments to help with living costs and give you time to look for other work. It offers: $490 a week if you lost full-time work $250 a week if you lost part-time work. You can apply for the payment from 8 June 2020. More information and how to apply (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There is currently a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties until after 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It's important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, mortgage, board, emergency housing repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme helps employees working for businesses suffering from the effects of COVID-19. The scheme helps to keep people employed and ensures an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) A Wage Subsidy Extension payment is available to support workers, including sole traders, who are still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ends. It supports employers to continue to pay their employees. The Wage Subsidy Extension will be available for 8 weeks, between 10 June 2020 and 1 September 2020. It will be paid at the same weekly rate as the Wage Subsidy. Employers can apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension once they have finished paying their employees the original 12 week Wage Subsidy. To be eligible, your business must have had a revenue loss of at least 40% for a continuous 30 day period. This period needs to be in the 40 days before you apply, but no earlier than 10 May 2020, and must be compared to the closest period last year. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) The COVID-19 Income Relief Payment is another option for people who have recently lost their jobs. You may be eligible if you lost your job (including self-employment) from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19. You can get up to 12 weeks of payments to help with living costs and give you time to look for other work. It offers: $490 a week if you lost full-time work $250 a week if you lost part-time work. You can apply for the payment from 8 June 2020. More information and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There is currently a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties until after 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It's important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals in NZ Financial support for businesses
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for foreign nationals in NZ --- Section Separator --- Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, such as food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third-parties, such as landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made. All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: visitor visas student visas work visas. Find out if you are eligible and begin your application by using the COVID-19 financial support tool. COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, such as food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third-parties, such as landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made. All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: visitor visas student visas work visas. Find out if you are eligible and begin your application by using the COVID-19 financial support tool. COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals in NZ Financial support for businesses
Advice on if you’ve lost your job or are looking for a change in career. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain. --- Section Separator --- Advice on if you’ve lost your job or are looking for a change in career. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain.
Home Business, work and money Employment Careers advice --- Section Separator --- Careers NZ has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers NZ can help with: building your CV using LinkedIn effectively interview preparation, including for remote interviews understanding which jobs and industries are in demand career prospects in different industries retraining opportunities navigating recruiter websites and job vacancies support after being made redundant. Careers NZ has tools and resources to help kickstart your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19. Use the skill matcher tool to get job ideas based on your skills Check on your career journey and find resources to help you Compare jobs from the jobs database Build your CV online. Know Your CV — Careers NZ (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers New Zealand also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) Call 0800 601 301 to talk to someone from 8.30 to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: career informationfinding what you need on the website suggesting what to do next. You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) --- Section Separator --- Careers NZ has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers NZ can help with: building your CV using LinkedIn effectively interview preparation, including for remote interviews understanding which jobs and industries are in demand career prospects in different industries retraining opportunities navigating recruiter websites and job vacancies support after being made redundant. Careers NZ has tools and resources to help kickstart your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19. Use the skill matcher tool to get job ideas based on your skills Check on your career journey and find resources to help you Compare jobs from the jobs database Build your CV online. Know Your CV — Careers NZ (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers New Zealand also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) Call 0800 601 301 to talk to someone from 8.30 to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: career informationfinding what you need on the website suggesting what to do next. You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business, work and money Employment Find a job --- Section Separator --- Because of COVID-19 many people will find their circumstances have changed. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff to help, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- Because of COVID-19 many people will find their circumstances have changed. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. --- Section Separator --- If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring additional staff to help, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business, work and money Employment In-demand industries --- Section Separator --- There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: growing food dairy farming, and sheep and beef making those things into high value products and taking them to the world. There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business, and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: on the farm as a herd manager, milker or farm assistant with animals in the agri-business sector advising farmers enhancing the environment as an agri-scientist. You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: planting and managing native and exotic forests looking after the forest environment managing people and resources working with state-of-the-art technology operating multi-million dollar machines and equipment. There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: growing food dairy farming, and sheep and beef making those things into high value products and taking them to the world. There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business, and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) --- Section Separator --- Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: on the farm as a herd manager, milker or farm assistant with animals in the agri-business sector advising farmers enhancing the environment as an agri-scientist. You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) --- Section Separator --- Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: planting and managing native and exotic forests looking after the forest environment managing people and resources working with state-of-the-art technology operating multi-million dollar machines and equipment. There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business, work and money Training and apprenticeships --- Section Separator --- Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Primary industries, including agriculture, horticulture and viticulture, fisheries (including aquaculture) and forestry Construction, including building, plumbing and civil engineering Community support, including youth work, care for elderly, counselling and community health, including mental health and addiction support Manufacturing and mechanical engineering and technology Electrical engineering Road transport Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. Through the fund, you can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: necessary medical, dental, or optical costs unforeseen flatting or family problems exceptionally high course-related costs a disability or temporary illness that prevents part-time or holiday employment a change to your employment situation additional costs incurred by studying off campus increased living costs such as power. To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Primary industries, including agriculture, horticulture and viticulture, fisheries (including aquaculture) and forestry Construction, including building, plumbing and civil engineering Community support, including youth work, care for elderly, counselling and community health, including mental health and addiction support Manufacturing and mechanical engineering and technology Electrical engineering Road transport Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. Through the fund, you can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: necessary medical, dental, or optical costs unforeseen flatting or family problems exceptionally high course-related costs a disability or temporary illness that prevents part-time or holiday employment a change to your employment situation additional costs incurred by studying off campus increased living costs such as power. To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Business Employment Training and apprenticeships Financial support
Help your community stay resilient and connected as we recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. How to get help if you or someone you know have nowhere to live, or you need help with housing or moving-in costs. A range of funding is available to support communities impacted by COVID-19. Ways to support your community. --- Section Separator --- Help your community stay resilient and connected as we recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. How to get help if you or someone you know have nowhere to live, or you need help with housing or moving-in costs. A range of funding is available to support communities impacted by COVID-19. Ways to support your community.
Home Community Community wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neigbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neigbourhood Support group (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Support for accommodation and housing Apply for funding Support your community
Ethnic community groups can apply for funding to support their communities. Community organisations that support women and girls in New Zealand can apply for funding for short-term support due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many sports clubs and recreational organisations have been negatively impacted by COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Ethnic community groups can apply for funding to support their communities. Community organisations that support women and girls in New Zealand can apply for funding for short-term support due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many sports clubs and recreational organisations have been negatively impacted by COVID-19.
Home Community Apply for funding Community organisations that support women and girls --- Section Separator --- Community organisations can apply for a grant from the COVID-19 Community Fund if they: provide services or support to women and girls, and are experiencing increased demand for services or a shortfall of funding due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Your organisation can apply for between $5,000 and $50,000 in each funding round. The total fund available is $1 million. Applications for round 1 were open from 31 May to 15 June 2020. Applications for round 2 will be open from 6 July to 20 July 2020 if funds are available. Information about the fund, eligibility criteria and assessment (external link) During emergencies and crises, issues related to gender equality often take a back seat, resulting in worse outcomes for women and girls. This can include greater loss of income, increased instances of domestic violence and increased caring responsibilities. Many community organisations that support women and girls now have reduced income and volunteer numbers due to the impacts of COVID-19, and at the same time, they have many more people needing their support. The COVID-19 Community Fund will support organisations that are experiencing increased demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The activities you can get funding for could include: extending health services for extra hours or into more remote areas opening community centres for extended periods of time reimbursing volunteers. The key areas that this funding can be used for include: ensuring healthy and safe communities reducing family and sexual violence improving child wellbeing working to support Māori, Pacific, rural and migrant women. --- Section Separator --- Community organisations can apply for a grant from the COVID-19 Community Fund if they: provide services or support to women and girls, and are experiencing increased demand for services or a shortfall of funding due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Your organisation can apply for between $5,000 and $50,000 in each funding round. The total fund available is $1 million. --- Section Separator --- Applications for round 1 were open from 31 May to 15 June 2020. Applications for round 2 will be open from 6 July to 20 July 2020 if funds are available. Information about the fund, eligibility criteria and assessment (external link) --- Section Separator --- During emergencies and crises, issues related to gender equality often take a back seat, resulting in worse outcomes for women and girls. This can include greater loss of income, increased instances of domestic violence and increased caring responsibilities. Many community organisations that support women and girls now have reduced income and volunteer numbers due to the impacts of COVID-19, and at the same time, they have many more people needing their support. The COVID-19 Community Fund will support organisations that are experiencing increased demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The activities you can get funding for could include: extending health services for extra hours or into more remote areas opening community centres for extended periods of time reimbursing volunteers. The key areas that this funding can be used for include: ensuring healthy and safe communities reducing family and sexual violence improving child wellbeing working to support Māori, Pacific, rural and migrant women. --- Section Separator --- Ethnic communities Community organisations that support women and girls Sports and recreational clubs
Home Community Apply for funding Ethnic communities --- Section Separator --- There is funding available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay socially connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers, and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern You can apply by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Once you apply, an internal panel looks at your application and the Office of Ethnic Communities makes the final decision. Funding for more than 1 year is available if your group: has been set up for at least 2 years show a good grant management history have evidence of good governance and management systems have experience in or can show experience in running a similar project are a legal entity, such as an incorporated society, if the application is more than $10,000 for any 1 year can show success of the first year of funding Groups with legal status, such as trusts and incorporated societies, can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. There is advice available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is funding available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay socially connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers, and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern --- Section Separator --- You can apply by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Once you apply, an internal panel looks at your application and the Office of Ethnic Communities makes the final decision. Funding for more than 1 year is available if your group: has been set up for at least 2 years show a good grant management history have evidence of good governance and management systems have experience in or can show experience in running a similar project are a legal entity, such as an incorporated society, if the application is more than $10,000 for any 1 year can show success of the first year of funding Groups with legal status, such as trusts and incorporated societies, can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. --- Section Separator --- There is advice available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ethnic communities Community organisations that support women and girls Sports and recreational clubs
Home Community Apply for funding Sports and recreational clubs --- Section Separator --- To help clubs and recreational organisations get back up and running, Sport NZ has launched a Community Resilience Fund for Regional Sports Trusts to access. The fund is available to help regional and local sports organisations remain financially viable following disruption caused by COVID-19. This applies if: the organisation cannot pay bills for fixed administration costs, excluding wages, in the 3 months from 1 April to 30 June 2020 there is a need as a result of lost income, or income that is likely to be delayed by more than 6 months, because of the impacts of COVID-19. A club can apply for $1,000 for fixed costs incurred from 1 April to 30 June 2020 and regional recreational and sports organisations can apply for up to $40,000. Apply via your local Regional Sports Trust. Each trust has a different application process for contestable funds. More information about the Sports NZ Community Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- To help clubs and recreational organisations get back up and running, Sport NZ has launched a Community Resilience Fund for Regional Sports Trusts to access. The fund is available to help regional and local sports organisations remain financially viable following disruption caused by COVID-19. This applies if: the organisation cannot pay bills for fixed administration costs, excluding wages, in the 3 months from 1 April to 30 June 2020 there is a need as a result of lost income, or income that is likely to be delayed by more than 6 months, because of the impacts of COVID-19. A club can apply for $1,000 for fixed costs incurred from 1 April to 30 June 2020 and regional recreational and sports organisations can apply for up to $40,000. Apply via your local Regional Sports Trust. Each trust has a different application process for contestable funds. More information about the Sports NZ Community Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ethnic communities Community organisations that support women and girls Sports and recreational clubs
Home Community Support for accommodation and housing --- Section Separator --- You may be able to get help if you do not have somewhere to live or you need help with your housing costs. Or if you know someone in your community who needs help with housing, you can point them in the right direction. If you or someone else has nowhere to stay, Work and Income could help you find somewhere to live. You can get help if you need emergency housing, you need to leave your home because of family violence or you’re leaving prison and you don’t have somewhere to stay. Get help if you have nowhere to stay (external link) If you are having trouble paying rent for a home, you may be able to live in a public house where the Government pays part of the rent. These houses are rented out by Kāinga Ora (used to be Housing New Zealand) and other Community Housing Providers. Find out if you can apply to live in public housing (external link) If you need help to pay your rent or are struggling to pay your housing costs, you may be able to get help. You could get help with: paying rent repairs and maintenance keeping warm at home making your home accessible support at home. Get help with housing costs (external link) More information on financial support Moving house can be expensive. You may be able to get help with things like: bond and rent in advance moving out of public housing moving to another public housing property. Get help when moving house (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may be able to get help if you do not have somewhere to live or you need help with your housing costs. Or if you know someone in your community who needs help with housing, you can point them in the right direction. --- Section Separator --- If you or someone else has nowhere to stay, Work and Income could help you find somewhere to live. You can get help if you need emergency housing, you need to leave your home because of family violence or you’re leaving prison and you don’t have somewhere to stay. Get help if you have nowhere to stay (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are having trouble paying rent for a home, you may be able to live in a public house where the Government pays part of the rent. These houses are rented out by Kāinga Ora (used to be Housing New Zealand) and other Community Housing Providers. Find out if you can apply to live in public housing (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help to pay your rent or are struggling to pay your housing costs, you may be able to get help. You could get help with: paying rent repairs and maintenance keeping warm at home making your home accessible support at home. Get help with housing costs (external link) More information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Moving house can be expensive. You may be able to get help with things like: bond and rent in advance moving out of public housing moving to another public housing property. Get help when moving house (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Support for accommodation and housing Apply for funding Support your community
It feels great buying New Zealand-made goods. Help local tourism businesses get back on their feet. --- Section Separator --- It feels great buying New Zealand-made goods. Help local tourism businesses get back on their feet.
Home Community Support your community Buy local to support locals --- Section Separator --- It’s a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Buy local to support locals See your own backyard
Home Community Support your community See your own backyard --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- Buy local to support locals See your own backyard
Together, New Zealand has united against COVID-19. The government has a range of initiatives to address some of the impacts of the response to COVID-19, and to make sure we can keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find the latest COVID-19 case data and information on how it spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Together, New Zealand has united against COVID-19. The government has a range of initiatives to address some of the impacts of the response to COVID-19, and to make sure we can keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find the latest COVID-19 case data and information on how it spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing.
Home Our response to COVID-19 COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group --- Section Separator --- On 1 July 2020 the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group was established as a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC). The response to COVID-19 has required a significant effort from across government and will continue to require this coordinated approach for many months to come. The business unit continues the enduring work of the National Crisis Management Centre following the centre’s deactivation on 30 June 2020. It is mandated to coordinate, and where necessary lead, the All-of-Government response to the ongoing pandemic. This includes providing assurance of national level oversight and coordination of government agencies’ responses to COVID-19. It also includes the continuation of delivering a national communications and public engagement programme. To mobilise the collective capacity of government to eliminate COVID-19 while sustaining our economy and social cohesion. The business unit is led by John Ombler in his role as Deputy Chief Executive, COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group. John was previously the All-of-Government Controller for the response to COVID-19 based in the National Crisis Management Centre. The COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group consists of 3 main functions. This function is led by Cheryl Barnes, Head of Strategy and Policy. The function: develops scenarios and advice on New Zealand’s preparedness against COVID-19 provides advice to Cabinet on the Government’s policy response to COVID-19. coordinates policy across government. This function is led by Mike Bush, Head of Operations and Planning The function: coordinates operational work streams across government provides data analytics, monitoring, reporting, and insights provides managed isolation and quarantine at the border (led by Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine). About managed isolation and quarantine This function is led by Heather Peacocke, Head of Communications and Public Engagement. The function: delivers public information through the ‘Unite against COVID-19’ campaign provides operational communications and media support to the business unit. --- Section Separator --- On 1 July 2020 the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group was established as a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC). The response to COVID-19 has required a significant effort from across government and will continue to require this coordinated approach for many months to come. The business unit continues the enduring work of the National Crisis Management Centre following the centre’s deactivation on 30 June 2020. It is mandated to coordinate, and where necessary lead, the All-of-Government response to the ongoing pandemic. This includes providing assurance of national level oversight and coordination of government agencies’ responses to COVID-19. It also includes the continuation of delivering a national communications and public engagement programme. --- Section Separator --- To mobilise the collective capacity of government to eliminate COVID-19 while sustaining our economy and social cohesion. --- Section Separator --- The business unit is led by John Ombler in his role as Deputy Chief Executive, COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group. John was previously the All-of-Government Controller for the response to COVID-19 based in the National Crisis Management Centre. The COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group consists of 3 main functions. This function is led by Cheryl Barnes, Head of Strategy and Policy. The function: develops scenarios and advice on New Zealand’s preparedness against COVID-19 provides advice to Cabinet on the Government’s policy response to COVID-19. coordinates policy across government. This function is led by Mike Bush, Head of Operations and Planning The function: coordinates operational work streams across government provides data analytics, monitoring, reporting, and insights provides managed isolation and quarantine at the border (led by Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine). About managed isolation and quarantine This function is led by Heather Peacocke, Head of Communications and Public Engagement. The function: delivers public information through the ‘Unite against COVID-19’ campaign provides operational communications and media support to the business unit. --- Section Separator --- Government actions Restrictions Test and trace COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group
Home Our response to COVID-19 Government actions --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced by the government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. This means there are no restrictions to everyday life, but there are controls at the border. Alert System overview Find out about Alert Level 1 Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas must complete 14 days in self-isolation before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1, and there are no restrictions in place for workplaces, schools, domestic travel or events. Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Others people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing Several visa categories were automatically extended to 25 September 2020 due to the impact of COVID-19 and challenge for people returning home. Work, student, visitor, limited or interim visas that expired between 2 April and 9 July 2020 were automatically extended if the person was in New Zealand on 2 April. Confirmation of these extensions and what it means have been emailed to visa holders. Immigration changes due to COVID-19 (external link) All driver licences, WoFs, CoFs, and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 are valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. This recognises that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up-to-date. This extension allows vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. All vehicle inspection sites are now open and to ensure your vehicle remains safe to use, you should renewe your WoF or CoF as soon as possible. NCEA exams were delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from the Ministry of Education (external link) If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, there are many industries that need people to keep New Zealand moving. Keep NZ working --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced by the government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. This means there are no restrictions to everyday life, but there are controls at the border. Alert System overview Find out about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas must complete 14 days in self-isolation before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1, and there are no restrictions in place for workplaces, schools, domestic travel or events. Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Others people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing --- Section Separator --- Several visa categories were automatically extended to 25 September 2020 due to the impact of COVID-19 and challenge for people returning home. Work, student, visitor, limited or interim visas that expired between 2 April and 9 July 2020 were automatically extended if the person was in New Zealand on 2 April. Confirmation of these extensions and what it means have been emailed to visa holders. Immigration changes due to COVID-19 (external link) All driver licences, WoFs, CoFs, and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 are valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. This recognises that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up-to-date. This extension allows vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. All vehicle inspection sites are now open and to ensure your vehicle remains safe to use, you should renewe your WoF or CoF as soon as possible. NCEA exams were delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from the Ministry of Education (external link) If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, there are many industries that need people to keep New Zealand moving. Keep NZ working --- Section Separator --- Government actions Restrictions Test and trace COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group
New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. Information on life and business at Alert Level 1. If you’re concerned that something may breach the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. Information on life and business at Alert Level 1. If you’re concerned that something may breach the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre.
Home Our response to COVID-19 Restrictions Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. Information on international travel It’s still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. How to stay healthy We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster If you are experiencing financial distress see our financial support page for useful information Financial support information If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and make sure you get tested. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate you must do so immediately. If you’re concerned about your wellbeing or have underlying health conditions, work with your GP to understand how best to stay healthy. Keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help contact tracing if needed. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app as a handy way of doing this. Businesses should help people keep track of their movements by displaying the Ministry of Health QR Code for contact tracing. Stay vigilant. There is still a global pandemic going on. People and businesses should be prepared to act fast to step up Alert Levels if we have to. People will have had different experiences over the last couple of months. Whatever you’re feeling — it’s okay. Be kind to others. Be kind to yourself. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. Information on international travel It’s still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. How to stay healthy We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster If you are experiencing financial distress see our financial support page for useful information Financial support information --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and make sure you get tested. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate you must do so immediately. If you’re concerned about your wellbeing or have underlying health conditions, work with your GP to understand how best to stay healthy. Keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help contact tracing if needed. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app as a handy way of doing this. Businesses should help people keep track of their movements by displaying the Ministry of Health QR Code for contact tracing. Stay vigilant. There is still a global pandemic going on. People and businesses should be prepared to act fast to step up Alert Levels if we have to. People will have had different experiences over the last couple of months. Whatever you’re feeling — it’s okay. Be kind to others. Be kind to yourself. --- Section Separator --- Alert system overview Alert Level 1 COVID-19 compliance
Home Our response to COVID-19 Restrictions Alert system overview --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. Information on life at Alert Level 1 The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19, and information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At all levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities, and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 came into force at 11:59pm Wednesday 25 March 2020. COVID-19 Alert Level 3 came into force at 11:59pm Monday 27 April 2020. COVID-19 Alert Level 2 came into force at 11:59pm Wednesday 13 May 2020. COVID-19 Alert Level 1 came into force at 11:59pm Monday 8 June 2020. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. Likely that disease is not contained. Community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks and new clusters. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in the local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Community transmission might be happening. New clusters may emerge but can be controlled through testing and contact tracing. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home including on public transport, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. Bubbles must stay within their immediate household bubble but can expand this to reconnect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools between years 1 to 10 and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low-risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited to, for example, essential workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness such as older people and those with existing medical conditions are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Household transmission could be occurring. Single or isolated cluster outbreaks. People can reconnect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping or travel domestically if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you don’t know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practical. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses must keep groups of customers separated, seated and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time in a defined space. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, for example those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and older people, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Isolated household transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry your hands, cough into your elbow, don’t touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if you're sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. Information on life at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19, and information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At all levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities, and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 came into force at 11:59pm Wednesday 25 March 2020. COVID-19 Alert Level 3 came into force at 11:59pm Monday 27 April 2020. COVID-19 Alert Level 2 came into force at 11:59pm Wednesday 13 May 2020. COVID-19 Alert Level 1 came into force at 11:59pm Monday 8 June 2020. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Likely that disease is not contained. Community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks and new clusters. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in the local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Community transmission might be happening. New clusters may emerge but can be controlled through testing and contact tracing. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home including on public transport, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. Bubbles must stay within their immediate household bubble but can expand this to reconnect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools between years 1 to 10 and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low-risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited to, for example, essential workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness such as older people and those with existing medical conditions are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Household transmission could be occurring. Single or isolated cluster outbreaks. People can reconnect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping or travel domestically if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you don’t know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practical. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses must keep groups of customers separated, seated and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time in a defined space. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, for example those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and older people, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Isolated household transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry your hands, cough into your elbow, don’t touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if you're sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Alert system overview Alert Level 1 COVID-19 compliance
Home Our response to COVID-19 Restrictions COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. This includes if you know of someone who is not complying with isolation or quarantine requirements. Report a breach online (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. This includes if you know of someone who is not complying with isolation or quarantine requirements. Report a breach online (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert system overview Alert Level 1 COVID-19 compliance
Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to many other illnesses, such as the flu. They include a cough, sore throat, high temperature, shortness of breath or a runny nose. If you have cold or flu symptoms, you should call your doctor, iwi health provider or Healthline. They will let you know if you should have a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health and district health boards will continue to trace people who may have been in contact with anyone who has COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to many other illnesses, such as the flu. They include a cough, sore throat, high temperature, shortness of breath or a runny nose. If you have cold or flu symptoms, you should call your doctor, iwi health provider or Healthline. They will let you know if you should have a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health and district health boards will continue to trace people who may have been in contact with anyone who has COVID-19.
Home Our response to COVID-19 Test and trace COVID-19 contact tracing --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have been in contact with them to see if they have also been infected. This process is called contact tracing. There are 2 types of contacts: close contacts, and casual contacts. Health services will give advice to both of these types of contacts on what they need to do. The Ministry of Health has more information about contact tracing, including: contact tracing phone calls detailed definitions of close contacts and casual contacts informative fact sheets. Detailed description of how contact tracing works (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. How to keep track of where you’ve been Contact tracing and QR code posters at your place of business --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have been in contact with them to see if they have also been infected. This process is called contact tracing. There are 2 types of contacts: close contacts, and casual contacts. Health services will give advice to both of these types of contacts on what they need to do. The Ministry of Health has more information about contact tracing, including: contact tracing phone calls detailed definitions of close contacts and casual contacts informative fact sheets. Detailed description of how contact tracing works (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. How to keep track of where you’ve been Contact tracing and QR code posters at your place of business --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms COVID-19 testing COVID-19 contact tracing COVID-19 data
Home Our response to COVID-19 Test and trace COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have these symptoms immediately call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or you iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. COVID-19 is contained in New Zealand and there is no community transmission. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate you must do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you must also self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is spread by droplets from person to person. Good hygiene can prevent its spread. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. The scientific evidence proves that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands Sneeze and cough into your elbow Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly If you have cold or flu symptoms stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. --- Section Separator --- We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- If you have these symptoms immediately call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or you iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. COVID-19 is contained in New Zealand and there is no community transmission. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate you must do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you must also self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is spread by droplets from person to person. Good hygiene can prevent its spread. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. The scientific evidence proves that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands Sneeze and cough into your elbow Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly If you have cold or flu symptoms stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms COVID-19 testing COVID-19 contact tracing COVID-19 data
Home Our response to COVID-19 Test and trace COVID-19 testing --- Section Separator --- At Level 1, COVID-19 is contained in New Zealand and there is no community transmission. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Testing continues to help us eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. The highest priority for testing is to test people who are symptomatic and have: been in contact with a confirmed or probable case travelled internationally in the past 14 days had direct contact with a person who has travelled overseas. This could include Customs, Immigrationm and Managed Isolation and Quarantine staff worked on an international aircraft or shipping vessel cleaned at an international airport or maritime port in areas visited by international arrivals. Others presenting to health services with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 may also be tested to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Testing helps us: identify cases of COVID-19 manage clusters of cases if we find them track how well our efforts are working. Getting tested early helps protect those around you and helps New Zealand recover. If you have cold or flu symptoms, please call: your doctor iwi health provider, or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . A health professional will let you know the next steps and whether you should get a test. There’s more than 1 way to test for COVID-19, for example, a nose swab or a sputum test. Whatever form a test takes, it involves collecting a sample from you. That sample goes to a lab to be analysed. The lab results may take some time. When you are tested you will be told when and how to expect your results. Whether you test positive or negative, you will be notified about your results. While you wait for your results you may be advised to self-isolate. Your medical professional will advise you on this. If you are tested you should follow the advice you’re given about what to do next. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough into your elbow, cover any sneezes and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. People testing you will wear protective equipment likes gowns or masks — this is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Our health system will continue to support anyone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise you on what you need to do. For most people, this will mean self-isolating at home. Self-isolation Health agencies will identify and contact trace anyone that you have come into close contact with. Contact tracing To be recovered from COVID-19, you must meet the following criteria: It must have been at least 10 days since you got your symptoms. After the 10 days, you need to have been clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. If you were hospitalised, it must be at least 10 days after you are discharged from the hospital and you must be clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. The Ministry of Health is still recording testing data by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of any future spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 data --- Section Separator --- At Level 1, COVID-19 is contained in New Zealand and there is no community transmission. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. --- Section Separator --- Testing continues to help us eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. The highest priority for testing is to test people who are symptomatic and have: been in contact with a confirmed or probable case travelled internationally in the past 14 days had direct contact with a person who has travelled overseas. This could include Customs, Immigrationm and Managed Isolation and Quarantine staff worked on an international aircraft or shipping vessel cleaned at an international airport or maritime port in areas visited by international arrivals. Others presenting to health services with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 may also be tested to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Testing helps us: identify cases of COVID-19 manage clusters of cases if we find them track how well our efforts are working. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested early helps protect those around you and helps New Zealand recover. If you have cold or flu symptoms, please call: your doctor iwi health provider, or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . A health professional will let you know the next steps and whether you should get a test. --- Section Separator --- There’s more than 1 way to test for COVID-19, for example, a nose swab or a sputum test. Whatever form a test takes, it involves collecting a sample from you. That sample goes to a lab to be analysed. The lab results may take some time. When you are tested you will be told when and how to expect your results. Whether you test positive or negative, you will be notified about your results. While you wait for your results you may be advised to self-isolate. Your medical professional will advise you on this. If you are tested you should follow the advice you’re given about what to do next. --- Section Separator --- If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough into your elbow, cover any sneezes and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. People testing you will wear protective equipment likes gowns or masks — this is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. --- Section Separator --- Our health system will continue to support anyone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise you on what you need to do. For most people, this will mean self-isolating at home. Self-isolation Health agencies will identify and contact trace anyone that you have come into close contact with. Contact tracing --- Section Separator --- To be recovered from COVID-19, you must meet the following criteria: It must have been at least 10 days since you got your symptoms. After the 10 days, you need to have been clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. If you were hospitalised, it must be at least 10 days after you are discharged from the hospital and you must be clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is still recording testing data by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of any future spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 data --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms COVID-19 testing COVID-19 contact tracing COVID-19 data
Advice on how to access all aspects of healthcare. Looking after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā is a tool we can use to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people at higher risk of COVID-19. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to access all aspects of healthcare. Looking after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā is a tool we can use to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people at higher risk of COVID-19. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus.
Home Health and wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police on, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your Local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) You, Me, Us — promoting healthy queer, trans and takatāpui relationships Find out more about You, Me, Us (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police on, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your Local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) You, Me, Us — promoting healthy queer, trans and takatāpui relationships Find out more about You, Me, Us (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Mental wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 Stay healthy
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. You should not delay seeking help for any health needs. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 and organise to get tested. COVID-19 symptoms Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in uniting to recover from the effects of COVID-19. For more information on the 2020 flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu website (external link) General practices, community health and addiction services are open. Health services trialled new ways of working during Alert Levels and discovered benefits for patients. Many services may continue to be provided by telephone or online for convenience. Talk to your provider about what works best for you both. Hospitals are open for all emergency and outpatient care. Hygiene and infection control practices will remain in place to keep everyone safe. Mental health and addiction in-patient and residential services are open. Allied health providers such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists are also open. People will have had different experiences over the last few months. Whatever you’re feeling — it’s okay. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed following times of difficulty, but there are things you can do to look after your mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing It’s important that anyone with health concerns contact Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. You should seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: in an emergency, always call 111 . call your family doctor for advice or information on all aspects of your health. you can also call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number with any COVID-19 health-related concerns on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. You should not delay seeking help for any health needs. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 and organise to get tested. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in uniting to recover from the effects of COVID-19. For more information on the 2020 flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu website (external link) --- Section Separator --- General practices, community health and addiction services are open. Health services trialled new ways of working during Alert Levels and discovered benefits for patients. Many services may continue to be provided by telephone or online for convenience. Talk to your provider about what works best for you both. Hospitals are open for all emergency and outpatient care. Hygiene and infection control practices will remain in place to keep everyone safe. Mental health and addiction in-patient and residential services are open. Allied health providers such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists are also open. People will have had different experiences over the last few months. Whatever you’re feeling — it’s okay. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed following times of difficulty, but there are things you can do to look after your mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- It’s important that anyone with health concerns contact Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. You should seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: in an emergency, always call 111 . call your family doctor for advice or information on all aspects of your health. you can also call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number with any COVID-19 health-related concerns on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Mental wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 Stay healthy
Advice on how to look after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. Free apps, toolkits, and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to look after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. Free apps, toolkits, and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional.
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Free tools, resources and apps --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whanau on the depression.org.nz website. The website includes advice, information and support for: Pregnant women and new parents (external link) Pasifika (external link) Older people (external link) People with long-term health conditions (external link) Māori (external link) Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practice new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) --- Section Separator --- Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whanau on the depression.org.nz website. The website includes advice, information and support for: Pregnant women and new parents (external link) Pasifika (external link) Older people (external link) People with long-term health conditions (external link) Māori (external link) Depression.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practice new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Free tools, resources and apps Where to go for help
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time, and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the Police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time, and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the Police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Free tools, resources and apps Where to go for help
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyones emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- Everyones emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Free tools, resources and apps Where to go for help
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age. This is a 24-hour service. Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, or you don’t know who to contact for help, call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age. This is a 24-hour service. Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, or you don’t know who to contact for help, call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Free tools, resources and apps Where to go for help
Home Health and wellbeing People at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well controlled, and some older people are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you should maintain physical distancing and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for at risk people (external link) You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. You should continue to access care for your medical condition. Health services such as your GP and hospitals have measures in place to keep both you and staff safe. Public health advice has informed the decision to move to Alert Level 1. This means the risk of COVID-19 has been managed. There are no restrictions at Alert Level 1, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At all Alert Levels remember to: regularly disinfect surfaces wash and dry your hands cough into your elbow do not touch your face stay home if you’re sick, and get tested for COVID-19 if you have flu like symptoms. --- Section Separator --- People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well controlled, and some older people are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you should maintain physical distancing and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for at risk people (external link) You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. You should continue to access care for your medical condition. Health services such as your GP and hospitals have measures in place to keep both you and staff safe. --- Section Separator --- Public health advice has informed the decision to move to Alert Level 1. This means the risk of COVID-19 has been managed. There are no restrictions at Alert Level 1, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels remember to: regularly disinfect surfaces wash and dry your hands cough into your elbow do not touch your face stay home if you’re sick, and get tested for COVID-19 if you have flu like symptoms. --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Mental wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 Stay healthy
Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. Fast and effective contact tracing is 1 way we can all work together to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Washing your hands continues to be 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Connecting with others is an incredibly powerful way to continue to support each other. It’s still important that we stay vigilant with cleaning. --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. Fast and effective contact tracing is 1 way we can all work together to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Washing your hands continues to be 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Connecting with others is an incredibly powerful way to continue to support each other. It’s still important that we stay vigilant with cleaning.
Home Health and wellbeing Stay healthy Clean surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Connect with others Clean surfaces
Home Health and wellbeing Stay healthy Connect with others --- Section Separator --- Support eachother by keeping the connections and close-ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Support eachother by keeping the connections and close-ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Connect with others Clean surfaces
Home Health and wellbeing Stay healthy Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a facemask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. --- Section Separator --- For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a facemask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. --- Section Separator --- Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Connect with others Clean surfaces
Home Health and wellbeing Stay healthy Keep track of where you’ve been --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the disease. How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who have been in contact with a case of COVID-19 (external link) You can keep track of your movements by: keeping a list in a safe place keeping a diary using an app to record your movement, or taking time-stamped photos of where you’ve been. Everyone should continue to keep track of the 3 Ws: Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. You can use any method that suits you and helps you to provide information about your whereabouts if a contact tracer needs to contact you. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) If you have questions about the app or any problems using it, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email tracingapp-feedback@health.govt.nz . Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) You can also use the camera app or a QR code scanner app on your phone to scan QR codes. At Alert Level 1, businesses are no longer required to record or keep details of people’s movement on their premises, but businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your QR code poster for your business --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the disease. How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who have been in contact with a case of COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can keep track of your movements by: keeping a list in a safe place keeping a diary using an app to record your movement, or taking time-stamped photos of where you’ve been. Everyone should continue to keep track of the 3 Ws: Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. You can use any method that suits you and helps you to provide information about your whereabouts if a contact tracer needs to contact you. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) If you have questions about the app or any problems using it, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email tracingapp-feedback@health.govt.nz . Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) You can also use the camera app or a QR code scanner app on your phone to scan QR codes. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, businesses are no longer required to record or keep details of people’s movement on their premises, but businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your QR code poster for your business --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Connect with others Clean surfaces
Home Health and wellbeing Stay healthy Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold or flu symptoms you should stay home, and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. These symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. COVID-19 symptoms If you have any of these symptoms it doesn’t necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you are waiting for COVID-19 test results, you should also self-isolate as a precaution. If you have been told you need to self isolate, you must do so immediately. If you are in self-isolation, follow these precautions: Avoid sharing a bed with others if possible. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms. Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold or flu symptoms you should stay home, and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. These symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. COVID-19 symptoms If you have any of these symptoms it doesn’t necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you are waiting for COVID-19 test results, you should also self-isolate as a precaution. If you have been told you need to self isolate, you must do so immediately. If you are in self-isolation, follow these precautions: Avoid sharing a bed with others if possible. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms. Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Connect with others Clean surfaces
Home Health and wellbeing Stay healthy Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses — as long as you use soap. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. --- Section Separator --- The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses — as long as you use soap. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Connect with others Clean surfaces
Home Health and wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyones mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: essential costs for whānau a wage subsidy for kaimahi redundancy support support for renters and tenants mortgage repayments. How to get financial support --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- Everyones mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. --- Section Separator --- Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: essential costs for whānau a wage subsidy for kaimahi redundancy support support for renters and tenants mortgage repayments. How to get financial support --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Mental wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 Stay healthy
New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Foreign nationals travelling in New Zealand should consider returning home as soon as they are able to. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Advice if you are — or want to — travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Foreign nationals travelling in New Zealand should consider returning home as soon as they are able to. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Advice if you are — or want to — travel to New Zealand.
Home Travel and the border Border restrictions --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether it is by air or sea. To help stop the spread of COVID-19, people who do arrive in New Zealand are required to undergo either managed isolation or quarantine for at least 14 days. Managed isolation and quarantine You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. Travel to New Zealand There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you must to get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) There are also exceptions to some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Advice on leaving New Zealand The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether it is by air or sea. To help stop the spread of COVID-19, people who do arrive in New Zealand are required to undergo either managed isolation or quarantine for at least 14 days. Managed isolation and quarantine You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. Travel to New Zealand There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you must to get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) There are also exceptions to some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Advice on leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Border restrictions Managed isolation and quarantine Managed isolation and quarantine Foreign nationals in New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Travel to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Border restrictions Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand by completing 14 days in isolation before safely returning home. Advice if you’re going to travel to New Zealand or want to The purpose of managed isolation is to ensure people do not have COVID-19 before they return to our communities. People are tested around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave managed isolation. Tens of thousands people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. New Zealand has managed isolation and quarantine facilities located throughout the country. All facilities are located within hotels. The facilities are closely monitored to make sure that measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. All hotels selected for managed isolation or quarantine need to meet a strict set of criteria. This is to ensure that people staying and working in them are kept safe and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Some of the criteria hotels must meet include: security and entry/exit points suitable room and bathroom facilities adequate provision of food and drink delivered to rooms safe laundry protocols ability to ensure peoples wellbeing through the provision of online access and services. None of the hotels being used for quarantine or managed isolation are currently open to other guests. The government holds exclusive use of the hotel facilities. Full list of all managed isolation and quarantine facilities There are over 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All-of-Government support team. Staff on the ground at our managed isolation facilities have stood at the frontline of New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19, doing essential work to ensure people can complete their stay safely and comfortably. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. Each team has representatives from: Ministry of Health (health and wellbeing) Defence (administration and logistics) Police and Aviation Security (security) Ministry of Social Development (welfare). The size of each team varies slightly based on facility capacity and the extra support required. For example there are more health professionals at a quarantine facility than a managed isolation facility. The multi-agency teams are responsible for managing the facilities and providing health and wellbeing support, security and assistance to guests, hotel staff and other government agency personnel. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand by completing 14 days in isolation before safely returning home. Advice if you’re going to travel to New Zealand or want to The purpose of managed isolation is to ensure people do not have COVID-19 before they return to our communities. People are tested around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave managed isolation. Tens of thousands people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has managed isolation and quarantine facilities located throughout the country. All facilities are located within hotels. The facilities are closely monitored to make sure that measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. All hotels selected for managed isolation or quarantine need to meet a strict set of criteria. This is to ensure that people staying and working in them are kept safe and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Some of the criteria hotels must meet include: security and entry/exit points suitable room and bathroom facilities adequate provision of food and drink delivered to rooms safe laundry protocols ability to ensure peoples wellbeing through the provision of online access and services. None of the hotels being used for quarantine or managed isolation are currently open to other guests. The government holds exclusive use of the hotel facilities. --- Section Separator --- Full list of all managed isolation and quarantine facilities --- Section Separator --- There are over 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All-of-Government support team. Staff on the ground at our managed isolation facilities have stood at the frontline of New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19, doing essential work to ensure people can complete their stay safely and comfortably. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. Each team has representatives from: Ministry of Health (health and wellbeing) Defence (administration and logistics) Police and Aviation Security (security) Ministry of Social Development (welfare). The size of each team varies slightly based on facility capacity and the extra support required. For example there are more health professionals at a quarantine facility than a managed isolation facility. The multi-agency teams are responsible for managing the facilities and providing health and wellbeing support, security and assistance to guests, hotel staff and other government agency personnel. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Facility locations Facility locations
Home Travel and the border Border restrictions Managed isolation and quarantine Facility locations --- Section Separator --- All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. None of the hotels being used as managed isolation or quarantine facilities are open to the public — this includes guests and domestic travellers. They are used exclusively for people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. Crowne Plaza Auckland Four Points by Sheraton Auckland Grand Mercure Auckland Grand Millennium Auckland Haka Hotel Newmarket Holiday Inn Auckland Airport JetPark Hotel Auckland Airport M Social Auckland Naumi Hotel Auckland Airport Novotel Auckland Airport Novotel/Ibis Ellerslie Pullman Auckland Ramada Federal Street Rydges Auckland Sebel Manakau SO Auckland Stamford Plaza Auckland Sudima Auckland Airport Waipuna Hotel and Conference Centre Distinction Hamilton Ibis Hamilton JetPark Hotel Hamilton Ibis Rotorua Sudima Rotorua Bay Plaza Hotel Wellington Grand Mercure Wellington Chateau on the Park Commodore Hotel Christchurch Distinction Christchurch Novotel Christchurch Airport Sudima Christchurch Airport --- Section Separator --- All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. None of the hotels being used as managed isolation or quarantine facilities are open to the public — this includes guests and domestic travellers. They are used exclusively for people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Crowne Plaza Auckland Four Points by Sheraton Auckland Grand Mercure Auckland Grand Millennium Auckland Haka Hotel Newmarket Holiday Inn Auckland Airport JetPark Hotel Auckland Airport M Social Auckland Naumi Hotel Auckland Airport Novotel Auckland Airport Novotel/Ibis Ellerslie Pullman Auckland Ramada Federal Street Rydges Auckland Sebel Manakau SO Auckland Stamford Plaza Auckland Sudima Auckland Airport Waipuna Hotel and Conference Centre --- Section Separator --- Distinction Hamilton Ibis Hamilton JetPark Hotel Hamilton --- Section Separator --- Ibis Rotorua Sudima Rotorua --- Section Separator --- Bay Plaza Hotel Wellington Grand Mercure Wellington --- Section Separator --- Chateau on the Park Commodore Hotel Christchurch Distinction Christchurch Novotel Christchurch Airport Sudima Christchurch Airport --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Facility locations Facility locations
Home Travel and the border Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s High Commission, Embassy or Consulate in New Zealand. Check your home country’s border restrictions. You may be required to self-isolate when you get home, so it’s best to check it out now. Embassies will be able to help you with that. Check any stopover country border restrictions. Yoou may find that you are not allowed to transit via certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you with that. Contact a travel agent to talk about your travel requirements. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they will be able to let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Check your flights. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Book a flight before turning up to an airport. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, make sure you book your flight before you turn up to the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours prior to departure. We’re sympathetic to individuals who are in New Zealand and unable to return home at the moment. Your employer-assisted temporary work visa is extended by 6 months if you: are in New Zealand, and your visa is due to expire before 31 December 2020. This includes employer-assisted temporary work visas that: expire after 9 July were previously extended to 25 September under the Epidemic Management Notice. This extension does not apply to any partner or dependent child who holds a visa based on their relationship with you. Their expiry date will remain the same. Your work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa was extended to 25 September 2020 if: you were in New Zealand, and your visa had an expiry date between 00:01am, 2 April to 11:59pm 9 July 2020. This extension was made under the original Epidemic Management Notice. A confirmation of this was emailed to all visa holders. Certain visas have not been extended. This applies if your visa expires after 9 July and you have: an open work visa a student visa a visitor visa a limited visa, or an interim visa. Your current visa expiry remains the same. You need to: leave the country before your visa expires, or make an application for a new visa This includes partners or dependent children who hold a visa based on the relationship with an employer-assisted work visa. For more information: call 0508 558 855 (external link) get the latest immigration changes because of COVID-19 (external link) Immigration New Zealand has increased its visa processing capacity, and has resumed processing temporary entry and residence visa applications. Visa processing will be prioritised for those already in New Zealand. The Government has postponed: selections for expressions of interest (EOI) in the Skilled Migrant Category (SMC) and the Parent Category ballot registrations for the Samoan Quota (SQ) and Pacific Access Category (PAC) 19 capped Working Holiday schemes due to open in the next 6 months. This is a temporary measure. Immigration NZ will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. The Government is providing support in finding temporary accommodation for those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There’s a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. How to get temporary accommodation (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, such as food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third-parties, such as landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made. All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: visitor visas student visas work visas. Find out if you are eligible and begin your application by using the COVID-19 financial support tool. COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s High Commission, Embassy or Consulate in New Zealand. Check your home country’s border restrictions. You may be required to self-isolate when you get home, so it’s best to check it out now. Embassies will be able to help you with that. Check any stopover country border restrictions. Yoou may find that you are not allowed to transit via certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you with that. Contact a travel agent to talk about your travel requirements. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they will be able to let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Check your flights. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Book a flight before turning up to an airport. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, make sure you book your flight before you turn up to the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours prior to departure. --- Section Separator --- We’re sympathetic to individuals who are in New Zealand and unable to return home at the moment. Your employer-assisted temporary work visa is extended by 6 months if you: are in New Zealand, and your visa is due to expire before 31 December 2020. This includes employer-assisted temporary work visas that: expire after 9 July were previously extended to 25 September under the Epidemic Management Notice. This extension does not apply to any partner or dependent child who holds a visa based on their relationship with you. Their expiry date will remain the same. Your work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa was extended to 25 September 2020 if: you were in New Zealand, and your visa had an expiry date between 00:01am, 2 April to 11:59pm 9 July 2020. This extension was made under the original Epidemic Management Notice. A confirmation of this was emailed to all visa holders. Certain visas have not been extended. This applies if your visa expires after 9 July and you have: an open work visa a student visa a visitor visa a limited visa, or an interim visa. Your current visa expiry remains the same. You need to: leave the country before your visa expires, or make an application for a new visa This includes partners or dependent children who hold a visa based on the relationship with an employer-assisted work visa. For more information: call 0508 558 855 (external link) get the latest immigration changes because of COVID-19 (external link) Immigration New Zealand has increased its visa processing capacity, and has resumed processing temporary entry and residence visa applications. Visa processing will be prioritised for those already in New Zealand. The Government has postponed: selections for expressions of interest (EOI) in the Skilled Migrant Category (SMC) and the Parent Category ballot registrations for the Samoan Quota (SQ) and Pacific Access Category (PAC) 19 capped Working Holiday schemes due to open in the next 6 months. This is a temporary measure. Immigration NZ will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. The Government is providing support in finding temporary accommodation for those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There’s a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. How to get temporary accommodation (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, such as food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third-parties, such as landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made. All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: visitor visas student visas work visas. Find out if you are eligible and begin your application by using the COVID-19 financial support tool. COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- Border restrictions Foreign nationals in New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Travel to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas all travellers should consult either: the official website of the country they wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. Check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local High Commission, Embassy or Consulate in New Zealand. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. The New Zealand Government is also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) There are many people in New Zealand who wish to return to their home country. More information for foreign nationals in New Zealand Some countries require you to have a negative COVID-19 test before you travel. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your general practice (GP). Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) In line with the Government’s global travel advisory to not travel at this time, New Zealanders should avoid taking an overseas cruise at the time due to COVID-19. The virus can spread quickly on board cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas all travellers should consult either: the official website of the country they wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. Check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local High Commission, Embassy or Consulate in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many people in New Zealand who wish to return to their home country. More information for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Some countries require you to have a negative COVID-19 test before you travel. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your general practice (GP). Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- In line with the Government’s global travel advisory to not travel at this time, New Zealanders should avoid taking an overseas cruise at the time due to COVID-19. The virus can spread quickly on board cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. --- Section Separator --- Border restrictions Foreign nationals in New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Travel to New Zealand
It’s important to plan before you travel to New Zealand. Advice for when you are arriving back in New Zealand. What to expect while you complete your isolation. Advice on when you will be able to leave either managed isolation or quarantine. --- Section Separator --- It’s important to plan before you travel to New Zealand. Advice for when you are arriving back in New Zealand. What to expect while you complete your isolation. Advice on when you will be able to leave either managed isolation or quarantine.
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Arriving in NZ --- Section Separator --- You will need to wear a face mask when you leave the plane. Government officials will explain what will be happening and answer any questions. You will then be screened for COVID-19 symptoms such as a high temperature. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You must continue to wear a face mask until you get to your room at the facility. You will be allocated to a facility on arrival. This will normally be with the other travellers from the flight you arrived on. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Hamilton Rotorua Wellington Christchurch Yo u may be assigned to a facility that is in a different city to the city you arrived at. If this is the case the government will arrange your transfer. Transport will also be provided back to the airport you arrived at, if you wish. Otherwise, travel home on completion of your isolation will be at your own expense. Our onsite support team will work with you to conifrm you travel arrangements. You are not expected to pay any money towards your accommodation. Your 14 days of isolation start from the time your vessel arrives in New Zealand’s territorial waters. You will most likely complete your isolation on your vessel. Under some situations you might be transferred to a managed isolation facility. Government officials will provide more information on your arrival. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You will need to wear a face mask when you leave the plane. Government officials will explain what will be happening and answer any questions. You will then be screened for COVID-19 symptoms such as a high temperature. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You must continue to wear a face mask until you get to your room at the facility. You will be allocated to a facility on arrival. This will normally be with the other travellers from the flight you arrived on. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Hamilton Rotorua Wellington Christchurch Yo u may be assigned to a facility that is in a different city to the city you arrived at. If this is the case the government will arrange your transfer. Transport will also be provided back to the airport you arrived at, if you wish. Otherwise, travel home on completion of your isolation will be at your own expense. Our onsite support team will work with you to conifrm you travel arrangements. You are not expected to pay any money towards your accommodation. --- Section Separator --- Your 14 days of isolation start from the time your vessel arrives in New Zealand’s territorial waters. You will most likely complete your isolation on your vessel. Under some situations you might be transferred to a managed isolation facility. Government officials will provide more information on your arrival. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to NZ Arriving in NZ Complete your isolation Leaving isolation
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Complete your isolation --- Section Separator --- The purpose of managed isolation is to ensure people do not have COVID-19 before they return to our communities. People are tested around day three and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave managed isolation. More than 22,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. You will be met by staff from the quarantine and managed isolation programme at your facility. They will be in regular contact with you and can provide any support you need. You will also get an information pack with more detail about your stay. Welcome pack: managed isolation facility [PDF, 354 KB] You will be assigned a room for the duration of your stay. This will take into account how many people are with you. Basic toiletries and refreshments will be provided in your room on arrival. This includes things like tea and coffee. Unlimited Wi-Fi access is also available free of charge. Laundry services are available at each facility. Any purchases, including external calls from landlines in hotel rooms, will be at your own expense. You will be provided with three meals a day and snacks. These will be delivered to your room and are funded by the government. For any additional meals, you can order room service or deliveries from local shops or supermarkets. This will be at your own expense. Dietary needs are catered to as best as possible, including medical needs and cultural tastes. It is important to note that hotel kitchens are not operating in the same way they might normally and the choices available are often limited. There is no need to bring food with you. Remember that New Zealand has strict biosecurity laws about bringing food into the country. Information about bringing food and other risk items into New Zealand (external link) You can drink alcohol in managed isolation, just remember to drink in moderation. Movement outside rooms is allowed only in a strictly controlled manner. You will be asked to only interact with people in your ‘bubble’ and stay 2 metres away from other people. You need to wear a face mask if: you are outside your room someone else needs to enter your room — like for maintenance or cleaning. You will get instructions on how to put on, wear, take off, and dispose of your mask safely. Leaving your room for exercise is permitted. Rules have been developed by each location that are closely managed by the team on site. You must not leave your facility unless authorised. Reasons could include: taking part in planned outdoor exercise in case of emergency to access healthcare if you have to move to a different facility. Staff from the quarantine and managed isolation programme will ensure steps are taken to minimise the risk of COVID-19 spreading. There will be a team of health professionals at your facility. They are there to care for you. If you are feeling unwell, please stay in your room and phone the on-site team. They will advise what to do next. If at any point during your stay you develop the COVID-19 symptoms please stay in your room and let the on-site staff know immediately by phone. COVID-19 symptoms You should follow instructions from the medical officer of health or health protection officer during your stay. As well as COVID-19 testing, you will also be required to have a medical assessment. If asked to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks, you must do so. It is important you are honest about your health during your stay in managed isolation. While isolation can be difficult, the reason for it is to keep New Zealand safe and stamp out COVID-19. By isolating and monitoring your own health, you’re playing an important role. You may be contacted up to 3 times by Healthline during your stay. This is to check on your health and welfare and is in addition to on-site health checks. Healthline is funded by the Ministry of Health and staffed by an experienced team of health practitioners. The service is part of our commitment to help keep you safe, so please raise any welfare concerns you may have. Let the staff know if you need to speak to a nurse. They can assist you with your prescription needs. If you are under 18, we will help you and your whānau/parents/guardian to make your stay comfortable and safe. There may be some special provisions available, for example to enable school work. A parent might also be able to join you in managed isolation. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of managed isolation is to ensure people do not have COVID-19 before they return to our communities. People are tested around day three and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave managed isolation. More than 22,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- You will be met by staff from the quarantine and managed isolation programme at your facility. They will be in regular contact with you and can provide any support you need. You will also get an information pack with more detail about your stay. Welcome pack: managed isolation facility [PDF, 354 KB] --- Section Separator --- You will be assigned a room for the duration of your stay. This will take into account how many people are with you. Basic toiletries and refreshments will be provided in your room on arrival. This includes things like tea and coffee. Unlimited Wi-Fi access is also available free of charge. Laundry services are available at each facility. Any purchases, including external calls from landlines in hotel rooms, will be at your own expense. --- Section Separator --- You will be provided with three meals a day and snacks. These will be delivered to your room and are funded by the government. For any additional meals, you can order room service or deliveries from local shops or supermarkets. This will be at your own expense. Dietary needs are catered to as best as possible, including medical needs and cultural tastes. It is important to note that hotel kitchens are not operating in the same way they might normally and the choices available are often limited. There is no need to bring food with you. Remember that New Zealand has strict biosecurity laws about bringing food into the country. Information about bringing food and other risk items into New Zealand (external link) You can drink alcohol in managed isolation, just remember to drink in moderation. --- Section Separator --- Movement outside rooms is allowed only in a strictly controlled manner. You will be asked to only interact with people in your ‘bubble’ and stay 2 metres away from other people. You need to wear a face mask if: you are outside your room someone else needs to enter your room — like for maintenance or cleaning. You will get instructions on how to put on, wear, take off, and dispose of your mask safely. Leaving your room for exercise is permitted. Rules have been developed by each location that are closely managed by the team on site. You must not leave your facility unless authorised. Reasons could include: taking part in planned outdoor exercise in case of emergency to access healthcare if you have to move to a different facility. Staff from the quarantine and managed isolation programme will ensure steps are taken to minimise the risk of COVID-19 spreading. --- Section Separator --- There will be a team of health professionals at your facility. They are there to care for you. If you are feeling unwell, please stay in your room and phone the on-site team. They will advise what to do next. If at any point during your stay you develop the COVID-19 symptoms please stay in your room and let the on-site staff know immediately by phone. COVID-19 symptoms You should follow instructions from the medical officer of health or health protection officer during your stay. As well as COVID-19 testing, you will also be required to have a medical assessment. If asked to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks, you must do so. It is important you are honest about your health during your stay in managed isolation. While isolation can be difficult, the reason for it is to keep New Zealand safe and stamp out COVID-19. By isolating and monitoring your own health, you’re playing an important role. You may be contacted up to 3 times by Healthline during your stay. This is to check on your health and welfare and is in addition to on-site health checks. Healthline is funded by the Ministry of Health and staffed by an experienced team of health practitioners. The service is part of our commitment to help keep you safe, so please raise any welfare concerns you may have. Let the staff know if you need to speak to a nurse. They can assist you with your prescription needs. --- Section Separator --- If you are under 18, we will help you and your whānau/parents/guardian to make your stay comfortable and safe. There may be some special provisions available, for example to enable school work. A parent might also be able to join you in managed isolation. --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to NZ Arriving in NZ Complete your isolation Leaving isolation
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Leaving isolation --- Section Separator --- You will be able to leave managed isolation: after 14 days, and if your final COVID-19 test is negative. You’ll be asked for details about your onward travel plans and where you will be staying. If you need help with accommodation, our team can support you with making arrangements. You will be able to leave quarantine after you have: spent at least 14 days in quarantine, and been free of COVID-19 symptoms for at least 48 hours. You will also need to have an onward travel plan and tell us about where you plan to be staying. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. All compassionate exemptions from managed isolation have been suspended. A very small number of people may still be eligible for other exemptions. Information on the exemption criteria and how to apply (external link) Transport will be provided back to the airport you arrived at — if you wish. Otherwise, travel home on completion of your stay is at your own expense. Our onsite support team will work with you to confirm your travel arrangements. --- Section Separator --- You will be able to leave managed isolation: after 14 days, and if your final COVID-19 test is negative. You’ll be asked for details about your onward travel plans and where you will be staying. If you need help with accommodation, our team can support you with making arrangements. --- Section Separator --- You will be able to leave quarantine after you have: spent at least 14 days in quarantine, and been free of COVID-19 symptoms for at least 48 hours. You will also need to have an onward travel plan and tell us about where you plan to be staying. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. All compassionate exemptions from managed isolation have been suspended. A very small number of people may still be eligible for other exemptions. Information on the exemption criteria and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Transport will be provided back to the airport you arrived at — if you wish. Otherwise, travel home on completion of your stay is at your own expense. Our onsite support team will work with you to confirm your travel arrangements. --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to NZ Arriving in NZ Complete your isolation Leaving isolation
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Plan your travel to NZ --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Border restrictions You still have a legal right to come home if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to closure of New Zealand's borders for people who aren’t citizens or residents. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals into New Zealand must: complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. When you arrive in New Zealand you will be screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: don't have symptoms you will isolate at a managed isolation facility. have symptoms, or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You will be tested for COVID-19 around days 3 and 12 of your isolation. You must test negative for COVID-19 before you can leave isolation. Leaving managed isolation or quarantine Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. You should contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. You should also contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Get emergency consular assistance if you need it. Call: +64 99 20 20 20 if you're outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you're in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessles can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are also exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visas information for critical workers in the maritime sectors (external link) You will not be able to go to the shops when you arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. You might be able to get shopping and food delivered, but this will depend on where you complete your managed isolation or quarantine. We recommend you bring everything you need for daily life. Clothes — around a week’s worth. Each person will be able to do 2 bags of laundry during their stay. Toiletries — for example toothpaste and toothbrush, shaving equipment and sanitary products. New Zealand dollars, if possible. Things to entertain yourself and any children you have with you. Bring any devices that will help pass the time as you will be spending a lot of time in the hotel room. There will be TV and Wi-Fi in your room. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Border restrictions You still have a legal right to come home if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to closure of New Zealand's borders for people who aren’t citizens or residents. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) --- Section Separator --- Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals into New Zealand must: complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. When you arrive in New Zealand you will be screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: don't have symptoms you will isolate at a managed isolation facility. have symptoms, or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You will be tested for COVID-19 around days 3 and 12 of your isolation. You must test negative for COVID-19 before you can leave isolation. Leaving managed isolation or quarantine --- Section Separator --- Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. You should contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. You should also contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Get emergency consular assistance if you need it. Call: +64 99 20 20 20 if you're outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you're in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessles can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are also exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visas information for critical workers in the maritime sectors (external link) --- Section Separator --- You will not be able to go to the shops when you arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. You might be able to get shopping and food delivered, but this will depend on where you complete your managed isolation or quarantine. We recommend you bring everything you need for daily life. Clothes — around a week’s worth. Each person will be able to do 2 bags of laundry during their stay. Toiletries — for example toothpaste and toothbrush, shaving equipment and sanitary products. New Zealand dollars, if possible. Things to entertain yourself and any children you have with you. Bring any devices that will help pass the time as you will be spending a lot of time in the hotel room. There will be TV and Wi-Fi in your room. --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to NZ Arriving in NZ Complete your isolation Leaving isolation
Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings Data and statistics about the response to COVID-19 in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings Data and statistics about the response to COVID-19 in New Zealand.
Home Updates and resources Contact a helpline --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. For advice you can contact the free government helplines. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Level 1 means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- For advice you can contact the free government helplines. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Level 1 means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Contact a helpline Misinformation and scams Legislation and key documents Posters Data and statistics
The Ministry of Health is still collecting data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is still collecting data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand.
Home Updates and resources Data and statistics COVID-19 data --- Section Separator --- You can find data on: any confirmed or probable cases of COVID-19 the number of people who have recovered how many people are and have been in hospital cases by district health board (DHB), and by age and gender. Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Ministry of Health data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports which help understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health provides a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This gives us an accurate picture of the country’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find data on: any confirmed or probable cases of COVID-19 the number of people who have recovered how many people are and have been in hospital cases by district health board (DHB), and by age and gender. Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Ministry of Health data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports which help understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health provides a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This gives us an accurate picture of the country’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 data Managed isolation and quarantine data
Home Updates and resources Data and statistics Managed isolation and quarantine data --- Section Separator --- 20 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 2 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 166 KB] 3 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 4 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 5 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 7 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 318 KB] (updated) 8 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 9 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 10 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 13 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 14 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 15 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 16 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 17 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] --- Section Separator --- 20 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 2 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 166 KB] 3 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 4 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 5 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] 7 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 318 KB] (updated) 8 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 9 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 10 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 13 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 14 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 15 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 16 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 117 KB] 17 July 2020 daily update [PDF, 127 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 data Managed isolation and quarantine data
Displaying 1-10 of 24 updates 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in Police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The government has released the review of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, will provide an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in Police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident.
A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020.
A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453.
Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, will provide an update to the media at 1pm.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: oversight of all processes within the facilities provision of testing enforcement of rules logistical supply chains such as PPE coordination of relevant agencies standing up of new facilities continued oversight of repatriation flights accountability for those people who are in charge of each facility. “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: end to end induction process general security and safety of travellers provision of health services; and standardisation of procedures including COVID testing and screening. “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb.
The government has today released the review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 NZDF personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to Managed Isolation and Quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Increased security for transferring returnees to managed isolation facilities The standardisation of procedures across all facilities The introduction of better information for returnees – from flight boarding through to entry into New Zealand and their exit from Managed Isolation. Better information to communities where those facilities are located. Strengthening of demand forecasting, reporting functions and coordination between agencies. Health responses include: More staff in facilities Improved model of care – including taking into account issues like mental health and addiction issues More clinical oversight to ensure a consistent quality of service in facilities Monitoring to ensure there is consistency across facilities “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well- functioning Managed Isolation and Quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. --- Section Separator --- Managed Isolation and Quarantine: Review Terms of Reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed Isolation and Quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed Isolation and Quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] --- Section Separator --- At departure airport. Check in for flight – information on which town passenger will complete Managed Isolation in is provided On flight to New Zealand – passengers informed by PA of the town they will complete Managed Isolation in (whole flight goes to same town). On landing at the international terminal: Government escort: Passengers are meet by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Social distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration – as normal with social distancing. Bag collection – as normal with social distancing. Biosecurity – as normal with social distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location, journey time and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). Government escort: Passengers are meet by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Social distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration – as normal with social distancing. Bag collection – as normal with social distancing. Biosecurity – as normal with social distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location, journey time and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). On landing at domestic terminal: All passengers on the flight are transferred into buses airside. Passengers wear PPE and social distance on the bus journey. On arrival at managed isolation facility Moved through check in process, provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending in the hotel, ie some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the next three days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2-3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Moved through check in process, provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending in the hotel, ie some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the next three days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2-3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Routine during stay in a managed isolation facility Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use (ie gyms and pools). The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, public areas cleaning and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use (ie gyms and pools). The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, public areas cleaning and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Specific activities Around Day 3 and 12 COVID tests. Any positive results lead to a move to quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed prior to departure. Around Day 3 and 12 COVID tests. Any positive results lead to a move to quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed prior to departure. On departure Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs. Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs.
At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1
While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery. We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.
Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB]
Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said.
Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: The returnee is isolated in their room, whilst a dedicated quarantine transfer vehicle is sent from the quarantine facility. The vehicle is crewed by a driver and an assistant in PPE. Upon arrival of the transfer vehicle at the managed isolation facility, the returnee(s) is moved to the vehicle, with luggage placed in a trailer. Upon arrival at the Quarantine facility, the returnee(s) is processed by facility and health staff in PPE. Following departure from the managed isolation facility, the positive case(s)’s room is sealed for ten days, after which time it is given a deep clean. I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made.
There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link)
Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 24 updates 23 Jun 2020 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 21-24 of 24 updates 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Local Government Act 2002) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Social Security Act 2018 – Temporary Additional Support) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Employment Relations Act 2000—Collective Bargaining) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Oaths and Declarations Act 1957) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Protection of Personal and Property Rights Act 1988—Enduring Powers of Attorney) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012—Licence Application Inquiries) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Wills Act 2007—Signing and Witnessing of Wills) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Amendment Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Maritime Border) Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Order Revocation Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Amendment Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Amendment Order (No 3) 2020 – 12 May 2020 [PDF, 1.3 MB] ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Amendment Order (No 2) 2020 – 8 May 2020 [PDF, 1013 KB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) extension and amendment of notice to arrivals – 8 May 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Amendment Order 2020 – 29 April 2020 [PDF, 2.3 MB] ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Section 70(1)(f) extension and amendment of notice to all persons in New Zealand – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1.3 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) extension and amendment of notice to arrivals – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 986 KB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(m) amendment to notice to close premises – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) notice to arrivals – 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.8 MB] ( revoked ) [PDF, 1.8 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to all persons in New Zealand – 3 April 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 31 March 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] ( revoked ) [PDF, 1.1 MB] Section 70(1)(m) notice to close premises and forbidding congregation in outdoor places of amusement or recreation – 25 March 2020 [PDF, 3.1 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 16 March 2020 [PDF, 514 KB] ( expired ) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management—COVID-19) Notice (No. 2) 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 Renewal Notice 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19 – Parole Act 2002 and Sentencing Act 2002) Notice 2020 – 30 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Notice of Termination of National Transition Period (external link) Notice of National Transition Period (external link) (terminated) Requirements of the Director Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) and National Recovery Manager for CDEM Groups, Group Controllers and Group Recovery Managers for the duration of the COVID-19 national transition period [PDF, 86 KB] [PDF, 86 KB] (terminated) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 6 May 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 2 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency declared at 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 (external link) Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management groups in relation to tsunami alert testing — 4 April 2020 [PDF, 219 KB] Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups and Group Controllers for the duration of the COVID-19 response and recovery — 29 March 2020 [PDF, 223 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Local Government Act 2002) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Social Security Act 2018 – Temporary Additional Support) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Employment Relations Act 2000—Collective Bargaining) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Oaths and Declarations Act 1957) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Protection of Personal and Property Rights Act 1988—Enduring Powers of Attorney) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012—Licence Application Inquiries) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Wills Act 2007—Signing and Witnessing of Wills) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Amendment Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Maritime Border) Order 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Order Revocation Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Amendment Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Amendment Order (No 3) 2020 – 12 May 2020 [PDF, 1.3 MB] ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Amendment Order (No 2) 2020 – 8 May 2020 [PDF, 1013 KB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) extension and amendment of notice to arrivals – 8 May 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Amendment Order 2020 – 29 April 2020 [PDF, 2.3 MB] ( revoked ) Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Order 2020 (external link) ( revoked ) Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Section 70(1)(f) extension and amendment of notice to all persons in New Zealand – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1.3 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) extension and amendment of notice to arrivals – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 986 KB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(m) amendment to notice to close premises – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) notice to arrivals – 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.8 MB] ( revoked ) [PDF, 1.8 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to all persons in New Zealand – 3 April 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 31 March 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] ( revoked ) [PDF, 1.1 MB] Section 70(1)(m) notice to close premises and forbidding congregation in outdoor places of amusement or recreation – 25 March 2020 [PDF, 3.1 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 16 March 2020 [PDF, 514 KB] ( expired ) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management—COVID-19) Notice (No. 2) 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 Renewal Notice 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19 – Parole Act 2002 and Sentencing Act 2002) Notice 2020 – 30 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Notice of Termination of National Transition Period (external link) Notice of National Transition Period (external link) (terminated) Requirements of the Director Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) and National Recovery Manager for CDEM Groups, Group Controllers and Group Recovery Managers for the duration of the COVID-19 national transition period [PDF, 86 KB] [PDF, 86 KB] (terminated) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 6 May 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 2 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency declared at 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 (external link) Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management groups in relation to tsunami alert testing — 4 April 2020 [PDF, 219 KB] Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups and Group Controllers for the duration of the COVID-19 response and recovery — 29 March 2020 [PDF, 223 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Contact a helpline Misinformation and scams Legislation and key documents Proactive release Proactive release Posters Data and statistics
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 29 May. Where a final decision has been made after 29 May this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. Alert levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wages subsidy and leave schemes In addition to the documents released the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Daily updated figures on cases and testing (external link) Daily updates by Ministers and Officials (external link) Ministry of Health modelling of the health impacts of COVID-19 (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Treasury’s economic scenario modelling (external link) Ministry for Social Development weekly income support and wage subsidy update (external link) --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 29 May. Where a final decision has been made after 29 May this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. --- Section Separator --- Alert levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wages subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- In addition to the documents released the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Daily updated figures on cases and testing (external link) Daily updates by Ministers and Officials (external link) Ministry of Health modelling of the health impacts of COVID-19 (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Treasury’s economic scenario modelling (external link) Ministry for Social Development weekly income support and wage subsidy update (external link) --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Border --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Education --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Health response --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Housing --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Income support measures --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Offshore issues --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Supporting the economy --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 Investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 Phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices, however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 Investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 Phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices, however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Contact a helpline Misinformation and scams Legislation and key documents Posters Data and statistics
Home Updates and resources Posters --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display a poster encouraging people to download the NZ COVID Tracer app: NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others in 6 steps (English) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display a poster encouraging people to download the NZ COVID Tracer app: NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others in 6 steps (English) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Contact a helpline Misinformation and scams Legislation and key documents Posters Data and statistics