If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your COVID-19 vaccination now. Bookings for people aged 50 and over will open on Friday, 13 August. You might be interested in COVID-19 vaccines Travel with Australia New South Wales Locations of interest in Australia Pre-departure tests to enter NZ Travel declaration for travelling quarantine-free to NZ --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Testing of the crew of a container ship, the Rio De La Plata at sea off the coast of Tauranga, has confirmed 11 of the 21 crew are positive for COVID-19. Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum will bring together experts to discuss the next steps in our reconnection strategy. The forum will be livestreamed on the Unite against COVID-19 website a t 9am on Thursday, 12 August 2021 . --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 1,386,643 First dose administered 1,386,643 First dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we will be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Who to contact if you want to provide feedback to the COVID-19 Group. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Who to contact if you want to provide feedback to the COVID-19 Group. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact a helpline Provide feedback Archive
Home About this site Contact a helpline --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Helplines are available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines If you are aged 60 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your COVID-19 vaccinations now. Book online — visit Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Book by phone — call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). COVID-19 vaccines If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you're in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you're in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. If you have questions about your booking, please contact your airline. Sign up for notifications for travel with Australia (external link) It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand. Call +64 4 931 5720 from outside New Zealand or if you are in New Zealand with an international SIM. Rates will apply. Email enquiries@miq.govt.nz A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 on Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm. get help generating your official QR code posters by emailing help@covidtracer.min.health.nz email your query or feedback to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz In your email, include your phone’s make and model, the operating system you’re running and, if your query relates to an issue you are experiencing, a brief description of the issue. Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Helplines are available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 60 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your COVID-19 vaccinations now. Book online — visit Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Book by phone — call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you're in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you're in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. If you have questions about your booking, please contact your airline. Sign up for notifications for travel with Australia (external link) It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand. Call +64 4 931 5720 from outside New Zealand or if you are in New Zealand with an international SIM. Rates will apply. Email enquiries@miq.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 on Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm. get help generating your official QR code posters by emailing help@covidtracer.min.health.nz email your query or feedback to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz In your email, include your phone’s make and model, the operating system you’re running and, if your query relates to an issue you are experiencing, a brief description of the issue. --- Section Separator --- Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages --- Section Separator --- If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact a helpline Provide feedback Archive
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact a helpline Provide feedback Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact a helpline Provide feedback Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact a helpline Provide feedback Archive
Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Advice about attending large events and using public facilities at each of the Alert Levels. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs during the different Alert Levels. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers during the different Alert Levels. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. --- Section Separator --- Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Advice about attending large events and using public facilities at each of the Alert Levels. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs during the different Alert Levels. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers during the different Alert Levels. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been.
Home Activities Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. All restaurants and cafes can have a maximum of 100 people on their premises at a time. This might mean you have to wait for a table. We recommend you call ahead and book. If you are dining in, you legally must: remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. have one server per table, where practical. At Alert Level 2, food courts can open but with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. There may be reduced seating due to physical distancing. If you are waiting in line to order, keep 2 metres away from other customers and staff. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It is up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 1 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you will need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. You will need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines if you can keep 1 metre apart from others. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). Everyone has a role to play in slowing the spread of COVID-19. If you feel unwell, stay at home. If you have cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice on if you need to get tested. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App Cough or sneeze into your elbow Wash or sanitise your hands before you sit down to eat or drink Follow the establishment's safety measures. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. All restaurants and cafes can have a maximum of 100 people on their premises at a time. This might mean you have to wait for a table. We recommend you call ahead and book. If you are dining in, you legally must: remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. have one server per table, where practical. At Alert Level 2, food courts can open but with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. There may be reduced seating due to physical distancing. If you are waiting in line to order, keep 2 metres away from other customers and staff. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It is up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 1 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you will need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. You will need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines if you can keep 1 metre apart from others. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). --- Section Separator --- Everyone has a role to play in slowing the spread of COVID-19. If you feel unwell, stay at home. If you have cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice on if you need to get tested. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App Cough or sneeze into your elbow Wash or sanitise your hands before you sit down to eat or drink Follow the establishment's safety measures. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Education --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki (children) who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga (students) and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Schools will be open for those tamariki (children) whose parents or carers need to go to work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki (children) and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki (children) who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools may set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Parents, carers and whānau who are visitors to the school should keep 2 metres apart from people outside their household. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases, online learning may not be an option, for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 20 people per class. Each class is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Student accomodation, for example university halls of residence can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) All tamariki (children), young people, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test Tamaraki (children), young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at: schools early learning centres, or on school transport. Children and staff may wear face coverings at school if they choose to. Tamariki (children) and ākonga (students) who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz If you are an ākonga (student) who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) If you are an international student, you may be able to apply for the Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help pay for basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki (children) who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga (students) and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Schools will be open for those tamariki (children) whose parents or carers need to go to work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki (children) and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki (children) who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools may set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Parents, carers and whānau who are visitors to the school should keep 2 metres apart from people outside their household. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases, online learning may not be an option, for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 20 people per class. Each class is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Student accomodation, for example university halls of residence can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) --- Section Separator --- All tamariki (children), young people, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Tamaraki (children), young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at: schools early learning centres, or on school transport. Children and staff may wear face coverings at school if they choose to. Tamariki (children) and ākonga (students) who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you are an ākonga (student) who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) If you are an international student, you may be able to apply for the Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help pay for basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate, unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu or other faith-based or religious ceremony. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. But they legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility and, all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) At Alert Level 3, you can hold a funerals, tangihanga or burial, but these are limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku — the person who has died by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Only 10 people can attend the funeral. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate, unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu or other faith-based or religious ceremony. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. But they legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility and, all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can hold a funerals, tangihanga or burial, but these are limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku — the person who has died by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Only 10 people can attend the funeral. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Meeting friends and whānau --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit. not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell. regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Funeral and tangihanga requirements At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 100 people attending record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the 100 person limit. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ Covid Tracer App, wash or sanitise your hands, and wear a face covering if needed. At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family to your home. You can extend your household bubble to 2 or more homes to bring in close whānau, caregivers, or people who live alone or may be isolated. Everyone who is over 18 needs to agree to the extended bubble. Keep your extended bubble close and small. If you have an extended bubble arrangement you can invite those people to your home. It is important to protect your bubble if you extend it. If anyone in your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Even if you or people in your bubble have been vaccinated, it is important to self-isolate and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call your Healthline or your doctor for advice. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit. not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell. regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Funeral and tangihanga requirements At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 100 people attending record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the 100 person limit. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ Covid Tracer App, wash or sanitise your hands, and wear a face covering if needed. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family to your home. You can extend your household bubble to 2 or more homes to bring in close whānau, caregivers, or people who live alone or may be isolated. Everyone who is over 18 needs to agree to the extended bubble. Keep your extended bubble close and small. If you have an extended bubble arrangement you can invite those people to your home. It is important to protect your bubble if you extend it. If anyone in your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Even if you or people in your bubble have been vaccinated, it is important to self-isolate and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call your Healthline or your doctor for advice. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Moving, buying and selling your home --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you are moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house from an Alert Level 2 to an Alert Level 3 region. You legally must carry documents with you to show that you're moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. If you want to use a moving company, they will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. If you visit someone else's home, keep a record of where you went, and who you came into contact with. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, body corporates should: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Regularly clean and disinfect common areas such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house, including to and from a region that is at Alert Level 1 or Alert Level 2. If you are moving to a region which is in a different Alert Level, you legally must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company if you are moving to a region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. The movers will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen remotely. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they need to keep 2 metres away at all times. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you are anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, we recommend you do not carry out any property inspections. You can do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you are moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house from an Alert Level 2 to an Alert Level 3 region. You legally must carry documents with you to show that you're moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. If you want to use a moving company, they will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. If you visit someone else's home, keep a record of where you went, and who you came into contact with. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, body corporates should: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Regularly clean and disinfect common areas such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house, including to and from a region that is at Alert Level 1 or Alert Level 2. If you are moving to a region which is in a different Alert Level, you legally must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company if you are moving to a region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. The movers will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen remotely. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they need to keep 2 metres away at all times. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you are anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, we recommend you do not carry out any property inspections. You can do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Public events and entertainment --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. You can continue to attend events and gatherings after you have been vaccinated. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: use the NZ COVID Tracer App to keep track of where you have been and turn on Bluetooth tracing stay home if you are feeling unwell wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. If you have been vaccinated, we encourage you to keep up good health behaviours such as washing your hands and signing in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. All event organisers legally must display a QR code poster to help people keep track of where they have been. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2, events can go ahead but with restrictions. Events can only have a maximum of 100 people in any defined space. Workers providing services to the event are not included in the 100 person limit. If you are providing food and drinks at an event, everyone must be seated to be served. All event facilities need to assess how many people can be safely inside their venue while keeping 1 metre apart. This may mean that some venues and events may allow less than 100 people to attend. If you go to an event, you legally must keep 1 metre apart from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Event organisers and venues such as cinemas may alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to support you to physically distance. Please follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. Even if you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to keep 1 metre apart from others, sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and stay home if you are sick. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other public event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Event organisers legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and have an alternate contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined spaces. This includes when entering, leaving, or going to the bathroom. It does not include workers. At Alert Level 2, public facilities such as libraries, swimming pools, cinemas and museums can open. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some facilities may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the facility you go to, and be prepared to queue. If you go to a public facility: you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if you are in a space where physical distancing is difficult sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. All entertainment venues legally must close. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , funerals and tangihanga, up to a maximum of 10 people. All public facilities and attractions such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. You can continue to attend events and gatherings after you have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: use the NZ COVID Tracer App to keep track of where you have been and turn on Bluetooth tracing stay home if you are feeling unwell wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. If you have been vaccinated, we encourage you to keep up good health behaviours such as washing your hands and signing in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. All event organisers legally must display a QR code poster to help people keep track of where they have been. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, events can go ahead but with restrictions. Events can only have a maximum of 100 people in any defined space. Workers providing services to the event are not included in the 100 person limit. If you are providing food and drinks at an event, everyone must be seated to be served. All event facilities need to assess how many people can be safely inside their venue while keeping 1 metre apart. This may mean that some venues and events may allow less than 100 people to attend. If you go to an event, you legally must keep 1 metre apart from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Event organisers and venues such as cinemas may alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to support you to physically distance. Please follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. Even if you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to keep 1 metre apart from others, sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and stay home if you are sick. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other public event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Event organisers legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and have an alternate contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined spaces. This includes when entering, leaving, or going to the bathroom. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, public facilities such as libraries, swimming pools, cinemas and museums can open. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some facilities may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the facility you go to, and be prepared to queue. If you go to a public facility: you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if you are in a space where physical distancing is difficult sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. All entertainment venues legally must close. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , funerals and tangihanga, up to a maximum of 10 people. All public facilities and attractions such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Shopping and services --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access essential services throughout all Alert Levels. This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Essential services include food, healthcare, rubbish and recycling collection,  veterinary services, internet, fuel, energy and financial support. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend wearing a face covering. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must keep 1 metre apart from each other and their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. We recommend workers wear a face covering when physical distancing is not possible, and if it is practical to do so. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, bakeries, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can open and have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. All other retail stores can only open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If you are self-isolating, phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. If you are sick, call and reschedule. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners cannot work. If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you need financial help to buy food, your local food bank may be able to help you. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access essential services throughout all Alert Levels. This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Essential services include food, healthcare, rubbish and recycling collection,  veterinary services, internet, fuel, energy and financial support. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend wearing a face covering. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must keep 1 metre apart from each other and their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. We recommend workers wear a face covering when physical distancing is not possible, and if it is practical to do so. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, bakeries, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can open and have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. All other retail stores can only open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If you are self-isolating, phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. If you are sick, call and reschedule. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners cannot work. --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. --- Section Separator --- If you need financial help to buy food, your local food bank may be able to help you. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Sports and recreation --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you are unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you are sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You will need to keep 1 metre apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. At Alert Level 2, team sports events can continue. These are limited to 100 people. This includes both indoor and outdoor venues. The 100 person limit includes players and spectators. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. If a sports ground has more than 1 field, you can play multiple games at the same time, as long as each group is separated. Groups should try not to mix with each other, or share common facilities such as changing rooms at the same time. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. If you are watching the event, stand 2 metres away from others. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Rules for gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you are experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you are an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you are not experienced, do not surf. tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you are experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. swimming — in safe local spots. horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms. Please stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor for advice. Flying manned aircraft Hunting in motorised vehicles Water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving Team sports and training with people outside of your household bubble. At Alert Level 3, playgrounds are closed. At Alert Level 3, indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. Stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Do not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you are out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 3, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it is close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you are unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you are sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You will need to keep 1 metre apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. At Alert Level 2, team sports events can continue. These are limited to 100 people. This includes both indoor and outdoor venues. The 100 person limit includes players and spectators. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. If a sports ground has more than 1 field, you can play multiple games at the same time, as long as each group is separated. Groups should try not to mix with each other, or share common facilities such as changing rooms at the same time. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. If you are watching the event, stand 2 metres away from others. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Rules for gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you are experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you are an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you are not experienced, do not surf. tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you are experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. swimming — in safe local spots. horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms. Please stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor for advice. Flying manned aircraft Hunting in motorised vehicles Water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving Team sports and training with people outside of your household bubble. At Alert Level 3, playgrounds are closed. At Alert Level 3, indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. Stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Do not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you are out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 3, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it is close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on travel, personal movement, exercise, education, work, business and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on travel, personal movement, exercise, education, work, business and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on travel, personal movement, exercise, education, work, business and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on travel, personal movement, exercise, education, work, business and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups.
Home Alert Levels and updates About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places that do not have a QR code poster. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in our community. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places that do not have a QR code poster. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in our community. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster Our borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. There are controls at the borders for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand You can travel locally, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 2 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 2 You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Maintaining physical distancing At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Who needs to wear face coverings You cannot have more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, civil union ceremonies, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Public events and entertainment Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Meeting friends and wh ānau You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Events and entertainment Businesses can open at Alert Level 2, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources All early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open at Alert Level 2. All tamariki (children) should continue to attend school unless they are sick. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Education at Alert Level 2 If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they're older or have an underlying medical condition. If you're an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions at Alert Level 2. Advice for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Our borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. There are controls at the borders for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand You can travel locally, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 2 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 2 You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Maintaining physical distancing At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- You cannot have more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, civil union ceremonies, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Public events and entertainment Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Meeting friends and wh ānau --- Section Separator --- You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Events and entertainment --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open at Alert Level 2, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources --- Section Separator --- All early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open at Alert Level 2. All tamariki (children) should continue to attend school unless they are sick. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Education at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they're older or have an underlying medical condition. If you're an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions at Alert Level 2. Advice for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, your medical professional will advise you on whether you need to self-isolate while awaiting the test result. You should always stay home if you are feeling unwell. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and retail stores, like supermarkets 1 metre in controlled environments, like workplaces and schools. Maintaining physical distancing At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights if you are a taxi or ride-share driver. While it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. You're strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 3 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Gatherings of up to 10 people can go ahead, but only for: wedding and civil union ceremonies funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Public events and entertainment Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Meeting friends and wh ānau Public venues legally must close at Alert Level 3. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it cannot operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as personal protective equipment (PPE) including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Children and young people should learn from home at Alert Level 3. Any child who does not have supervision at home from an appropriate person can attend their service or school. Education at Alert Level 3 People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they're older or have an underlying medical condition. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement at Alert Level 3. Advice for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, your medical professional will advise you on whether you need to self-isolate while awaiting the test result. You should always stay home if you are feeling unwell. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and retail stores, like supermarkets 1 metre in controlled environments, like workplaces and schools. Maintaining physical distancing At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights if you are a taxi or ride-share driver. While it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. You're strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 3 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of up to 10 people can go ahead, but only for: wedding and civil union ceremonies funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Public events and entertainment Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Meeting friends and wh ānau Public venues legally must close at Alert Level 3. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. --- Section Separator --- Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it cannot operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as personal protective equipment (PPE) including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Children and young people should learn from home at Alert Level 3. Any child who does not have supervision at home from an appropriate person can attend their service or school. Education at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they're older or have an underlying medical condition. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement at Alert Level 3. Advice for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People are instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings are cancelled and all public venues are closed. Businesses are closed except for essential services - for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities will stay open. Educational facilities are closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities is possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information from 2020. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People are instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings are cancelled and all public venues are closed. Businesses are closed except for essential services - for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities will stay open. Educational facilities are closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities is possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information from 2020. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19  in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Data and statistics available Vaccine data COVID-19 cases Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 1,386,643 First dose administered 1,386,643 First dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered 2,207,468 Total doses administered 2,207,468 Total doses administered --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 9 August 2021: we corrected the number of total active cases from 36 to 26. 0 New community cases 0 New community cases 2 New cases at the border 2 New cases at the border 26 Total active cases in New Zealand 26 Total active cases in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) publishes a daily snapshot of d ata and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) in New Zealand. 161,634 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 161,634 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 2,912,151 Registered users 2,912,151 Registered users 473,693 Poster scans in the last 24 hours 473,693 Poster scans in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
We're all at Alert Level 1 now. We can all take steps to keep safe. What we all need to do at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we will be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
Home Alert Levels and updates History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group.
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response; and Provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response; and Provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. --- Section Separator --- Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member --- Section Separator --- Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. --- Section Separator --- Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. --- Section Separator --- Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 1-10 of 456 updates 09 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2021 Testing of the crew of a container ship, the Rio De La Plata at sea off the coast of Tauranga, has confirmed 11 of the 21 crew are positive for COVID-19. 08 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2021 From 6 August, New Zealanders aged 55 to 59 will be able to book their COVID-19 vaccine, five days earlier than planned. 04 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1.00pm. 03 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2021 Public health officials in New Zealand have this afternoon been in contact with their Queensland counterparts after authorities announced a snap lockdown there.
A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident.
A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020.
A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453.
Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453.
No further applications for urgent or exceptional travel are being accepted after 7pm (NZT) / 5pm (AEST). People who have already applied and are not already allocated a flight, and people who apply up until applications close today will be waitlisted for possible future flights after 29 July. They will be contacted directly about this. Anyone in Australia who is unable to return home to New Zealand at this time should continue to shelter in place and follow all local advice. This website (covid19.govt.nz) will continue to provide up-to-date information about the status of quarantine-free travel, and advice for New Zealanders in Australia. New Zealanders in Australia who are in need of urgent consular assistance should contact the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade emergency consular line at +64 99 20 20 20 from overseas or 0800 30 10 30 in New Zealand.
The Research Agency (TRA) was undertaken by the DPMC COVID-19 Group in May 2021 to provide an overview of how New Zealanders are feeling in relation to COVID-19, and the associated public health behaviours required of them. Those surveyed say COVID-19 has not interrupted their progress in life. However, people indicated they are looking forward to feeling relaxed, less stressed, secure and content in the next 12 months. The research showed public sentiment towards the COVID situation in NZ is quite passive with 44% of the public feeling ‘neutral’. The research also shows people in New Zealand are realistic and recognise COVID-19 health behaviours will be required in the post-vaccination era. More than 90% (91%) do not expect life to return to normal after they are vaccinated. “It’s good news the public recognise that New Zealand is entering a new phase and the vaccine will not be a silver bullet when it comes to moving on from the pandemic. We need to be thinking about layers of protection and the health behaviours that will play a role in our future.” says Deputy Chief Executive Cheryl Barnes. “The public say they are willing to do their part, but we don’t necessarily see this in their everyday routines. Part of the government’s ongoing role, working with others, is to inspire, motivate and support the public to do the right thing." According to the research, the public say they are motivated by following the rules (56%), their sense of duty (46%), avoiding another lockdown (48%), protecting family and friends (42%). Protecting friends and wh ānau is a key motivator for Māori and Pacific people. “It is good to see that people feel the virus isn’t getting in the way of their progress and has not had a negative impact on how they feel about their future.” Also of interest in the research is public attitudes towards the border. While most of those surveyed were fine with opening the bubble to a limited number of people, more than half (53%) were worried about opening quarantine free travel beyond Australia and the Cook Islands. Meanwhile, a report released yesterday by COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group looked at the way the February outbreak was managed and the current state of the Response System. Several recommendations made in the review have already been adopted as the Government response continuously evolves. “Due to the ever-evolving nature of COVID-19, we have constantly learned and adapted since the pandemic began last year and will continue to do so as we phase our reopening to the world” says Ms Barnes. The insights from this research will help inform future engagement activity and thinking.  Further research is planned in the form of ‘pulse checks’ to build understanding of how the public is feeling. Read the Sentiment and Benchmark behaviours – June 2021
It’s likely that at least some of the 11 crew are active cases of COVID-19 and further test results, expected today, will help determine how many of the crew are likely to be historical cases and no longer infectious. Public Health staff took the test swabs in Tauranga from the crew as part of the requirements for entry for the vessel to Napier - its next stop. All of the crew on board are reported to be well, with none reporting any symptoms. No crew members came port-side while the ship was being unloaded in Tauranga. The ship is linked to a COVID case in an Australian pilot who was onboard the vessel July in Queensland and who later developed symptoms and then tested positive for COVID-19 nine days after being aboard the vessel. The Australian pilot is confirmed to have the Delta variant and has not been linked to any other Queensland cases. Initial concerns about the link with the Australian pilot did result in loading of the vessel being temporarily halted on Wednesday (4 August) in Tauranga. An assessment carried out that day, cleared the ship, and unloading was allowed to resume the following day. The usual precautions and protocols in place by Port staff mean that any risks are appropriately managed. As an additional precautionary measure, 94 port workers who as part of their work, spent time on the vessel while it was in port, are now being contacted, provided with advice, tested and stood down until a negative result returned. Testing for those staff is being arranged at the port this morning.
Based on previous incidences, it is most likely that the two positive wastewater results are due to recently recovered cases continuing to shed the virus. The Ministry of Health is considering whether any recovered cases who live in the New Plymouth area have recently left a managed isolation facility. Additionally, it is plausible that other recently recovered cases from elsewhere in the country could have travelled to New Plymouth. ESR consider a single recovered person shedding the virus may be detected in wastewater. As a precautionary measure, and to help rule out possible undetected COVID-19 infection, the Ministry is encouraging anyone with symptoms especially if they are in the New Plymouth area, to get tested. Additional testing capacity is being stood up in New Plymouth to support potential demand. This advice also applies to recent visitors to the New Plymouth area. Anyone with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. Find a testing center near you (external link) We are closely monitoring this situation and additional public health advice will be provided if, and when, required. ESR undertakes regular wastewater testing across the country, as an additional surveillance tool in the fight against COVID-19.
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference
Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Transcript of the 4pm media conference --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Transcript of the 10:30am media conference
The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Minister of Finance Grant Robertson Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link)
The media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Joint Head of Managed Isolation Megan Main Watch the media conference at RNZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 4 cases of COVID-19 to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry of Health’s last update yesterday. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 16 August media conference [PDF, 187 KB] (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are no positive cases of COVID-19 to report today in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The media conference starts at 1:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The media conference starts at 1.00pm. Speakers: Covid-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Joint head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Megan Main Watch the live stream at the RNZ website (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are 2 new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since yesterday’s update. In addition, there are 2 historical cases identified at the border to report. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The media conference starts at 12:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Acting Minister for the COVID-19 Response Ayesha Verrall Associate Minister of Health (Māori Health) Peeni Henare Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream at the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one positive case of COVID-19 to report today in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. --- Section Separator --- The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database.
"Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. To isolate at their usual home. To not go out to work, and remain isolated, until they are contacted by their national contact tracing service, and they receive further direction. This direction applies to the following people: any employees or contractors of 2 employers: Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. any visitors to those workplaces in the last 14 days, and any people who ordinary live with those employees, or contractors, or visitors. If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health
The largest shipment of the Pfizer vaccine to date has arrived into New Zealand two days ahead of schedule, and doses are already being delivered to vaccination centres around the country. The shipment of more than 370,000 doses reached New Zealand yesterday, following a complex logistical exercise carried out jointly by Pfizer, DHL and the Ministry of Health’s logistics team. The arrival came after some dedicated work got the vaccines onto an earlier than expected connecting freight flight from Singapore. The Ministry of Health’s logistics team then worked through the weekend to coordinate with the flight schedule and be ready for the vaccine’s arrival into Auckland International Airport. The shipment was processed immediately at the Auckland depot, which means deliveries could be sent smoothly and efficiently to district health board sites where the stock buffer was the smallest. The team work also ensured everything was set up for delivery to other sites from first thing this morning. Fifteen sites received shipments from the newly arrived stock yesterday, while 104 will receive stocks of the vaccine today, a day earlier than planned. Teams on the ground in DHBs have been managing their stocks but towards the end of last week, margins were again getting tight in some of our larger population areas. This big delivery — with further significant shipments to arrive during the final two weeks of July and into August — is a massive boost for the national programme. Demand for the vaccine continues to be high, particularly in our bigger cities, and we’ve consistently said we want to have the doses out of storage and into arms. With the rollout continuing to sit at around 6% ahead of plan, it’s important we continue to do everything we can to get supply out to vaccination centres as quickly as possible. We expect this momentum to continue over the remainder of July and into August, with Pfizer having committed to deliver more than 1.5 million doses into New Zealand next month. That will represent our biggest monthly delivery to date and is fantastic news for the ongoing ramp up of our roll-out. We’ll continue to manage and monitor vaccine supplies coming into the country against increasing demand as the vaccination programme gathers momentum.
There are a growing number of locations of interest that are of concern, including a sports stadium on Saturday and several pubs. Public health officials are currently reviewing the situation in Victoria and will provide advice in due course. In the meantime we encourage anyone with concerns about the potential of a pause to quarantine-free travel to organise to get home as soon as possible. Travellers will still need to: provide proof of a negative pre-departure test within 72 hours of departure complete a health declaration confirming they have not been at a location of interest complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Travel declaration for travelling quarantine-free to New Zealand (external link)
Jo Gibbs, National Director of the COVID-19 Vaccine and Immunisation Programme, says the 0800 number will provide booking support and vaccination information. Advisors will also answer clinical questions. She says district health boards are making good progress in sending out invitations to people in Group 3. “They’ve been contacting people by email, text, phone call and through the post. “We do recognise though that there are some people who haven’t yet heard from us, and there are a number of reasons for this. “If you’re not enrolled with a health provider or have not updated your contact details, or have outdated patient records, then we may not have been able to contact you. “This new number means that if you’re 65 or over, have an underlying health condition, if you’re disabled, caring for someone who is disabled, or if you’re pregnant, you’re definitely in group 3 and can book your vaccination from today by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . “There’s a team of more than 1,300 advisors, working in shifts, ready to take calls. They are supported by paramedics and nurses who can answer any clinical questions. “They’ll be happy to help with translation services if you need them — they have access to more than 150 languages.” The COVID Vaccination Healthline is open between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. More than 650 team members will be rostered throughout the day, working in shifts. Jo Gibbs says the Healthline teams work across the country, within communities. Some work from their homes, and others are based in contact centres in Kaikohe, Kaitaia, Whangarei, Auckland, Hamilton, Tauranga, Hastings, Rotorua, Wellington and Christchurch. “We want everyone in Group 3 to have an opportunity to book their vaccine appointment before we open bookings to the 60-plus age band on 28 July,” she says. “That’s also when the online booking tool, Book My Vaccine, will be available.” --- Section Separator --- Between now and Christmas, based on the national vaccination rollout plan, the COVID Vaccination Healthline is expecting to speak to more than 2.5 million New Zealanders. The COVID Vaccination Healthline has been built off the foundation of Healthline; a trusted service that New Zealanders have been using for 20 years. Healthline is internationally recognised for its clinical quality and care. To get everyone on board and ready the COVID Vaccination Healthline team has:Completed more than 4,500 recruitment interviews. Delivered 31,200 hours of training. Configured and deployed 1,000 desktops.
The Government is further strengthening the border against COVID-19 by making it mandatory for more of the workforce to be vaccinated. To prevent the virus getting into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting the people who work there. The new COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July 2021. As well as workers at Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) facilities, workers at our ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 must now be vaccinated. The vaccination of MIQ workers has been successful so far. Latest numbers show there were 4,332 MIQ workers on site last week ending 4 July, all of whom were vaccinated. No unvaccinated worker can enter an MIQ facility. Of the active air border workers, 82% are fully vaccinated and 2% have received a single dose and await their second. However only 54% of active port workers have been fully vaccinated, and we need to see this number increased to avoid the risk of COVID-19 entering the country via our ports. The mandatory order will be extended to cover a further 1,800 currently unvaccinated active border workers. This is necessary to lift the uptake of the vaccine among the wider border workforce and strengthen our ongoing response to COVID-19. We encourage border employers to look at opportunities to make it easy for their workers to get vaccine appointments and to urge employees to get their vaccination. It is in their interests to keep COVID-19 out and their businesses open by having a vaccinated workforce. The legislation allows for a reasonable window for vaccination. All government employees covered by the order must have had their first dose by 26 August. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September. New workers covered by the Order (regardless of employer) will need to have their first dose before starting work. Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a high-risk border environment until they are vaccinated. The expanded Order applies to people working at: MIQ facilities (previously covered) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, aircraft or MIQ facilities where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for an aircraft, ship or MIQ facility where the employee 'has contact with' people who belong to different groups in the Order.
The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: oversight of all processes within the facilities provision of testing enforcement of rules logistical supply chains such as PPE coordination of relevant agencies standing up of new facilities continued oversight of repatriation flights accountability for those people who are in charge of each facility. “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: end to end induction process general security and safety of travellers provision of health services; and standardisation of procedures including COVID testing and screening. “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb.
Rising case numbers in New South Wales and people there not isolating has changed public health advice and means flights back from NSW will not start from midnight tonight as was intended. Case numbers in Sydney show no sign of plateauing and NSW has today ramped up restrictions again. We have responded quickly and moved to act on new advice to hold off on managed return flights from the state for three more days. As a result, work is underway to stage flights from Tuesday, 13 July to Auckland and Christchurch airports only. 14 days in managed isolation at MIQ will be a temporary requirement for travellers from NSW from Tuesday. This was a difficult decision but we consider it is necessary given the heightened risk in NSW. We know there are Kiwis who’ve been on holiday, reconnecting with family or doing business wanting to get back. However New Zealand public health officials – who are in daily contact with their NSW counterparts – have assessed that the risk to New Zealand from the state has continued to increase. That warrants an extra level of protection at the border for the time being. People going into managed isolation at MIQ will be tested on Day 0, as is usual protocol, which means they will not need to get a repeat pre-departure test. They will not be invoiced for the stay. In the intervening period, about 1000 rooms at MIQs over the next fortnight will be readied and plans made to prioritise the first cohorts of retuning travellers. Rooms were kept aside specifically for this purpose. The Government wants to reassure people that they will be able to return but ask for patience. Travellers can expect to receive more detailed guidance from their airlines over the next 24 hours. This will include how they can secure a seat on a flight home and a room in MIQ. Rooms will not be allocated through the usual MIAS system. In the meantime, we are strongly advising people not to fly to Sydney unless they normally live there and are returning home. The travel bubble pause with NSW remains in place. Managed return flights from Queensland will continue as planned from midnight tonight, and indications are that the pause with Queensland will lift early next week.
The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: increased security for transferring returnees to managed isolation facilities the standardisation of procedures across all facilities The introduction of better information for returnees — from flight boarding through to entry into New Zealand and their exit from managed isolation. Better information to communities where those facilities are located. Strengthening of demand forecasting, reporting functions and coordination between agencies. Health responses include: more staff in facilities improved model of care — including taking into account issues like mental health and addiction issues more clinical oversight to ensure a consistent quality of service in facilities monitoring to ensure there is consistency across facilities. “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] --- Section Separator --- At departure airport. Check in for flight — information on which town passenger will complete managed isolation in is provided On flight to New Zealand — passengers informed by PA of the town they will complete managed isolation in (whole flight goes to same town). On landing at the international terminal: Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). On landing at domestic terminal: All passengers on the flight are transferred into buses airside. Passengers wear PPE and practise physical distancing on the bus journey. On arrival at managed isolation facility Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Routine during stay in a managed isolation facility Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Specific activities Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. On departure Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs. Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs.
At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1
Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2
The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code
New Zealand health officials met again today and determined that, at this time, a better understanding is still needed of the developing situation in Victoria, including the number and pattern of COVID-19 cases. Victoria remains in lockdown and, with a growing number of people considered linked to the outbreak, Australian health authorities advise that further announcements for the state are expected tomorrow. Quarantine-free travel with Queensland will remain in place – subject to no further significant developments – with officials deeming the state continues to pose a low COVID-19 public health risk to New Zealand. New Zealand health officials are also closely monitoring the situation in South Australia, following a new case of COVID-19 today reported in the community. Factors considered in reaching these decisions today included whether any new cases were identified, whether they were infectious in the community, and the results of COVID-19 testing of any contacts and from the wider community. Ministry of Health public health staff remain in close contact with Australian health authorities about the actions being taken in each state. Border controls, including pauses to quarantine-free travel, remain a key tool for stopping the introduction and spread of new COVID-19 cases from overseas. The ongoing pause with Victoria is a precautionary – but necessary – measure while investigations continue. The pause on quarantine-free travel from Victoria and New South Wales will be reviewed again on Wednesday 21 July. Advice for recent travellers from Australia : Anyone who was in Queensland since 28 June is encouraged to check the Queensland Health website for locations of interest. Check the locations of interest in Queensland | qld.gov.au (external link) Anyone who was in Victoria since 8 July is encouraged to keep checking the Victoria Health website for locations of interest, with new locations of interest continuing to be announced. Check locations of interest in Victoria | vic.gov.au (external link) People who have been at these locations at the relevant time should immediately isolate at their home or appropriate accommodation and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing. 0800 358 5453 Further information about quarantine-free travel between Australia and New Zealand, and details about acceptable pre-departure documentation on the COVID-19 website Read more about pre-departure requirements
However, people currently in the state who ordinarily live in New Zealand will be able to travel starting with the next available flight, and are encouraged to do so. A negative pre-departure test taken within 72 hours of flying will be required for eligible passengers. They will also need to complete a health declaration confirming they have not been at a location of interest and the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. Complete Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) A stay in managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) will not be required. The decision is based on public health advice from New Zealand officials and follows South Australia’s announcement this afternoon that it would go into lockdown for 7 days from 6pm tonight. The pause will run for 7 days, to 27 July, to coincide with the timing of the lockdown and will be reviewed on that day. The Government acknowledges this will be disruptive for travellers and organisations. However, given the current uncertainty and our consistently cautious approach to prevent COVID-19 from entering the New Zealand community, the Government is confident it is the right approach. The pause means people cannot travel to New Zealand from South Australia for the duration of the pause unless they are normally resident in New Zealand and wish to return. At this stage, there is no change to quarantine-free travel for Queensland.
The decision follows updated public health advice from New Zealand officials and a growing number of cases and locations of interest. The pause starts from 1:59am (NZT) Friday 16 July and be subject to further review on Monday. As with previous pauses, we acknowledge the frustration and inconvenience that comes with any interruption to Trans Tasman travel, but given the ongoing level of uncertainty around transmission in Melbourne, this is the right action to take. It is also in keeping with our consistently cautious approach to prevent COVID-19 entering the New Zealand community. The pause means anyone who has been in the state of Victoria after 1:59am (NZT) on 16 July cannot travel to New Zealand from any state in Australia until further notice. Travellers currently in Victoria should follow the instructions of Victorian authorities. Anyone who has been at a location of interest in Melbourne cannot travel to New Zealand. Those who are travelling tonight must have had a negative pre departure test. Anyone who has been in Melbourne in the last week and has since returned to New Zealand should monitor their health, and be aware that the number of locations of interest are increasing. They should be checking these regularly via the Victorian public health website. Locations of interest in Victoria | vic.gov.au (external link) Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales remains paused and managed return flights are still in place meaning travellers will have to go into managed isolation for 14 days after arriving in New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel from all other Australian states remains open, subject to evidence of a negative pre-departure test within 72 hours of departure, to complete a health declaration confirming you have not been at a location of interest and the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. It is also important that people in New Zealand contact Healthline should they develop any COVID-19 symptoms. Learn more about quarantine-free travel from Victoria
While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery. We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.
Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB]
Managed return flights will begin from tomorrow as the Government moves to allow people currently in New South Wales (NSW) who normally reside in New Zealand, but have found themselves stranded in NSW, to return home. COVID-19 Group Head of Response Planning and Readiness Graham MacLean said these will be commercial flights able to operate subject to the number of spaces available in managed isolation facilities. There will be approximately 1,000 rooms made available across the next 2 weeks. After this initial 2 week emergency allocation, officials will determine if another 2 week cycle of rooms needs to be made available for NSW returnees. “We are doing our best to make sure New Zealanders who need to get home can get home but people will need to be patient and need to understand that not all rooms will be available immediately,” says Graham MacLean. “We understand that this is a stressful time for people but we do ask that people be kind to staff across airlines, call centres and MIQ. Everyone is doing their best to help”. More information about managed return flights from NSW --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens. New Zealand permanent residents or resident visa holders. Citizens of Australia or persons who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Holders of New Zealand temporary visas who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. --- Section Separator --- Bookings need to be completed directly with airlines. Flights with Air New Zealand can be booked via their website from 10am (NZT) on Monday 12 July. Qantas will reach out to customers with existing bookings from Sydney to New Zealand and will provide a priority phone number from Monday 12 July. Air New Zealand website (external link) People are automatically assigned a place in managed isolation once they are booked on a managed return flight. They do not need to book a place in a managed isolation facility via the online booking system. --- Section Separator --- A certain portion of seats will be made available for travellers with an urgent or exceptional need who meet certain criteria. This includes healthcare or childcare needs, providing critical care for dependants, financial hardship or compassionate grounds. The full list of eligibility requirements can be found on the Unite against COVID-19 website. Travellers with an urgent or exceptional need who meet certain criteria The Government has set up a call centre for travellers with an urgent or exceptional need to return to New Zealand. Call +64 4 439 8235 on Monday to Friday, 10am to 10pm (NZT) / 8am to 8pm (NSW time). Email NSW2NZ@mfat.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Anyone found to be trying to enter New Zealand by travelling from New South Wales via another Australian state will immediately be placed in a managed isolation facility at their own cost. A fine may also be imposed. “We are aware that this may be a frustrating time for people caught out by the continuing restriction in NSW but government agencies are working hard to make sure demand for people to come home is managed appropriately,” says Graham MacLean. More information about managed return flights from NSW
Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said.
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. --- Section Separator --- The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: recovered charges do not exceed the actual costs of managed isolation and quarantine no upfront payment would be required there would be flexibility in how people could pay. Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) --- Section Separator --- The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: $3,100 per person in a room $950 for each additional adult, and $475 for each additional child sharing the room. The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Any New Zealander, who either: leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. Any temporary visa holder, unless: they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Family members travelling or isolating with people who do not have to pay charges (unless they are entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker). New Zealand citizens deported to New Zealand. Diplomats and official government representatives. Any person travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the accused in the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees and protected persons for their first entry into New Zealand after the charges come into force. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. --- Section Separator --- Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon.
The next step is for Cabinet to review advice from the Ministry of Health about the ‘decision to use’. Cabinet are expected to consider this issue soon. Until then, young people aged 12 to 15 cannot be given the vaccine. Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Its process for approving the use of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 has been carefully considered and robust, with safety as the key priority. There are around 265,000 people in this age bracket. We have ordered more than enough Pfizer vaccines for everyone who is already eligible, along with this new group, to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. No one will miss out on a vaccine. If Cabinet approve a ‘decision to use’ Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds, the Ministry of Health will provide advice about how young people will be able to access their vaccinations as part of the rollout. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. A number of countries including Canada, the United States and Europe have already approved vaccination for 12 to 15-year-olds, and some have begun to vaccinate this cohort.
From 11:59pm (NZT) today Australians will no longer be able to enter New Zealand quarantine-free. This will be in place for at least the next 8 weeks. For the next 7 days there will be return green flights for New Zealanders from all states and territories, except NSW, that will require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Those who have been in NSW will still have to go into MIQ for 14 days. And those who have been in Victoria must self-isolate upon return and have a negative day 3 test. The Government is working closely with airlines to ensure there are flights available over this period, and extend it for a few days if necessary. The decision to suspend travel follows updated public health advice from officials on the growing number of cases and locations of interest across Australia in recent days and weeks. There are now multiple outbreaks, and in differing stages of containment, that have forced three states into lockdown. The health risk to New Zealanders from these cases is increasing. We’ve always said that our response would evolve as the virus evolved. This is not a decision we have taken lightly, but it is the right decision to keep New Zealanders safe. Now is the time for a suspension to ensure New Zealanders aren’t put at undue risk from COVID-19 and to ensure we retain our hard won gains. Our team of 5 million has worked hard to put us in a strong position both health-wise and economically. We will not risk that. The Government acknowledges the frustration and inconvenience that comes with any interruption to trans-Tasman travel. Given the high level of transmissibility of the Delta variant, and the fact that there are now multiple community clusters, it is the right thing to do to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. The worsening situation in New South Wales, seepage across state borders and our consistently cautious approach to prevent COVID-19 from entering the New Zealand community, we are confident this is the right action to take. The suspension will give Australia time to manage its current outbreaks, while giving New Zealand health officials the time to monitor the situation, assess travel developments in other countries and consider different QFT settings while ensuring New Zealanders are safe. The Government remains committed to resuming quarantine-free travel with Australia.
This will be a full replacement for nasopharyngeal testing. Saliva testing will be expanded as an option for all those on a regular testing cycle under the Required Testing Order. This will start with those on a 7-day testing cycle from mid-August, and be expanded over several months to include the rest of the estimated 13,000 estimated active border workers. The Ministry of Health’s advice is that saliva testing is an increasingly viable and reliable method for public health surveillance purposes. The workers — many of whom are on rotating shifts — will also be able to undertake the testing directly at their workplaces, making access even easier. This will help boost uptake of saliva testing as a testing option for those who have to do it regularly. A single missed infection in New Zealand could have a significant impact on the community. Regular saliva testing can shorten the time between someone contracting the virus and it being picked up meaning we can get on top of managing it much more quickly. Extending saliva testing to more border workers is a key part of our overall approach to help keep our borders, and frontline border workers and their families safe. By offering this an alternative, we’re helping border workers who have frequent testing and find having a swab inserted in the nose very uncomfortable and hard to tolerate. A prototype to test the processes for regular saliva testing is currently underway in Canterbury. This has helped to inform the expansion from here, including around border worker shift patterns, preferences and what will encourage uptake. The initial concept has been adapted so that in most cases workers won’t need to be tested outside of their shift patterns and they can get the job done at work. If they’re on leave, we’re also aiming to make participation easier and less demanding. The Ministry of Health has provided assurance that the selected saliva testing provider has the capacity, flexibility and experience to provide this service from mid-August as part of our complementary testing regime within our broader surveillance programme. Public health, science and clinical advisors will continue to monitor and regularly review our approach as we undertake a phased roll out of saliva testing to border workers. Saliva testing is increasingly emerging as a key part of the toolkit in New Zealand and abroad.
Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date.
A total of 9 crew members onboard the Mattina container ship, currently in quarantine in Bluff, have now tested positive for COVID-19. The Marshall Islands-flagged vessel came into port on Sunday night and all 21 crew members were tested yesterday morning after 2 crew members initially reported having symptoms. Following confirmation yesterday afternoon of the first 2 cases, all additional results came back late last night, confirming a further 7 cases of COVID-19 aboard the ship. Health officials have determined that the only local port member who had contact with the ship crew is the Southport pilot, who went aboard the ship as it entered the port. Pilots are required to board vessels of this size when berthing. The pilot wore appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and was fully vaccinated. No one else has been on or off the ship since it docked. Yesterday morning’s testing for COVID-19 took place on the gangway area and all appropriate protocols were followed by health staff, including PPE. Health officials in Southern District Health Board (DHB) are working with other agencies to determine the next steps for the ship. In the meantime, the crew members remain on board the Mattina. The Mattina remains in quarantine in a secure area of the port which is inaccessible to members of the public and fencing will be put up to further restrict access to the ship.
New Zealand’s regulatory authority Medsafe has granted provisional approval of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine for individuals 18 years of age and older. New Zealand secured 7.6 million doses (enough for 3.8 million people) of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine through an advance purchase agreement with the company last year. The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is one of four purchase agreements we have with pharmaceutical companies for COVID-19 vaccines. We took a portfolio approach to manage the risk that some vaccines might not complete trials or be approved for use in New Zealand. We are in a fortunate position to now have three vaccines receive provisional approval. Cabinet is yet to consider whether to use the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. However this is an important step towards enabling the donation of AstraZeneca from New Zealand to Pacific countries, where we have made commitments. The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine requires two doses and is stored at normal fridge temperatures (2 to 8 degrees Celsius). The first delivery could be as early as late August, and officials are working closely with AstraZeneca to confirm delivery schedules. Our immunisation plan in New Zealand remains focused on rolling out the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The workforce is ramping up in line with increased deliveries. We are on track to provide two doses of the Pfizer vaccines to everyone in New Zealand who wishes to have one, by the end of this year. No one will miss out.
Further Government actions announced today are balanced to provide more certainty for Kiwis wanting to return from Australia, while continuing to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. The actions were foreshadowed last week and as part of the earlier process of managing the return of New Zealand residents from New South Wales. --- Section Separator --- When announcing a temporary suspension of the travel bubble with Australia last week, the Government provided a 7-day grace period for eligible travellers in states and territories other than New South Wales to return. Evidence of a negative result from their COVID-19 PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure test with acceptable documentation to the specified standard is required before boarding and returnees from Victoria must also isolate at home until a negative test is returned. If travellers cannot provide proof of a negative pre-departure test, they will not be allowed to travel. Agencies have been working closely with airlines and have advised that demand has dropped off in the last couple of days, with cancellations now outweighing new bookings and around 3,000 seats still available. Extra flights have been put on where required, for example from Brisbane and Melbourne, and extra capacity has opened up on flights from Perth as people have cancelled their flights. Travellers also have the option to transit via other airports in Australia. Based on this advice, the window will close at 11:59pm (NZT) on Friday 30 July. We believe most eligible travellers who wish to come back have taken the necessary steps to do so and we’re urging those who might still be deciding to act immediately. We’ll continue to monitor the situation over the coming days and consular support in Australia will be available. People are advised to register on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s Safe Travel website and subscribe to the notification service on United Against COVID-19 travel website. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Subscribe to email notifications (external link) --- Section Separator --- Managed return flights are continuing as planned from New South Wales, with travellers from the state required to spend 14 days in MIQ. More than 1,500 rooms in MIQ have so far been made available from the first 2 managed return phases — accommodating an estimated 2,100 people, including more than 300 urgent and exceptional cases. Today, we’re confirming that 500 MIQ additional rooms have been allocated from contingency, between 9 to 22 August. To manage and prioritise bookings, a registration of interest process has been established for these rooms, using a form on this website (Covid19.govt.nz). This registration process will open from 10am (NZT) on Friday 30 July, and close at 2pm (NZT) on Tuesday 3 August, with airlines following up to arrange booking details for flights after 9 August. Less than half of available seats have been occupied on flights from Australia to New Zealand. If you require urgent assistance to return home, you should call: 1800 537 726 +64 9 952 1695, or +64 4 830 3599 from Australia to discuss your situation. Travel from New South Wales (NSW)
An eight week suspension on Quarantine Free Travel from Australia took effect last Friday night, however there were additional managed return flights until last night (Friday 30 July) for New Zealanders able to provide a negative pre-departure test. As a result of today’s decision to enter a three day lockdown in parts of the state, the Ministry of Health is advising anyone who has travelled back to New Zealand since last Monday (26 July) to carefully check locations of interest on the Queensland Health website. (external link) If you’ve returned on one of those managed return flights since Monday, and have been at a location of interest at the relevant time, you should immediately isolate at home or appropriate accommodation and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing. Even if you haven’t been to one of those locations of interest, but have returned from Queensland since Monday, please remain vigilant, monitor any possible symptoms and ring Healthline and immediately isolate if any symptoms appear. You should continue to monitor the Queensland Health website for any updates on locations of interest. Contact tracing teams are working to identify travellers on flights who have returned from Queensland since Monday and all will be contacted by emails this weekend reinforcing the importance of keeping an eye on locations of interest, isolating if necessary and monitoring for symptoms. Emails will be sent to individuals based on their entries on the Nau Mai Ra travel declaration filled out before returning to New Zealand. The emails will remind people to visit the Locations of Interest page (external link) on the Ministry of Health’s website and follow the specific advice given. Please remember that if you have or develop any COVID-19 symptoms or feel unwell, please stay at your accommodation and arrange to have a test. You can organise this and seek further health and testing advice while in New Zealand by: Calling COVID-19 Healthline on 0800 358 5453 Visiting a local doctor – do not turn up without calling first.
The Marshall Island-flagged vessel came into port last night and all 21 crew members were tested this morning. Rapid tests were ordered for the 2 symptomatic cases. Health officials report their condition is regarded as improving. The test results for the remainder of the crew are due back later tonight. Both crew members who’ve tested positive, joined the ship in Singapore on 2 July after providing negative pre-departure tests. Health officials in Southern DHB are working with other agencies to determine the next steps for the ship. In the meantime, the crew members remain on board the Mattina. The Mattina is currently in quarantine in a secure area of the port which is inaccessible to any members of the public and fencing will be put up to further restrict access to the ship.
Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: The returnee is isolated in their room, whilst a dedicated quarantine transfer vehicle is sent from the quarantine facility. The vehicle is crewed by a driver and an assistant in PPE. Upon arrival of the transfer vehicle at the managed isolation facility, the returnee(s) is moved to the vehicle, with luggage placed in a trailer. Upon arrival at the Quarantine facility, the returnee(s) is processed by facility and health staff in PPE. Following departure from the managed isolation facility, the positive case(s)’s room is sealed for ten days, after which time it is given a deep clean. I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made.
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is 1 new case of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 18 cases of COVID-19 to report at the border since the Ministry’s last update yesterday — 5 in recent returnees and 13 from the Viking Bay vessel, announced earlier today. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are five new cases of COVID-19 to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are three positive cases of COVID-19 to report today in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are 4 new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees, in managed isolation facilities since yesterday’s update. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are six positive cases of COVID-19 to report today in recent returnees at the border. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are three positive cases and one historical case of COVID-19 to report today in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 19 positive cases — all of whom are mariners in isolation — and one historical case of COVID-19 to report today in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are three historical cases of COVID-19 to report today in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one case to report today in a managed isolation facility. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees, in managed isolation facilities since yesterday’s update. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are two new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees, and also one historical case, in managed isolation facilities. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There is 1 new case of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since yesterday’s update. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There is 1 new case of COVID-19 to report in a recent returnee in managed isolation facilities since yesterday’s update. There is 1 additional historical case to report in MIQ today. Five previously reported cases have now recovered, with the number of active cases in New Zealand standing at 25. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are five new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees, and one historical case, in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update on Friday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one case of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are two new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: getting a voucher to secure your place charges and exemptions facility locations what managed isolation is like Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link)
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: $3,100 for the first person in the room $950 for each additional adult sharing the room $475 for each additional child (aged 3 to 17 years) sharing that room. There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Any New Zealander who is currently overseas and enters New Zealand after the regulations come into force for less than 90 days will be liable for charges, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Any New Zealander who leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force (for example for a holiday or business) will be liable for charges when they return, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Everyone entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker will have to pay. In many cases, their employers will pay their managed isolation and quarantine costs. Other temporary visa holders are liable for the charges, unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand at the time the border closed and departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Partners, dependent children and legal guardians who are isolating or travelling with someone who is exempt from paying charges, unless they are entering under a critical worker border exception. Someone in New Zealand who goes into managed isolation to care for a person who is exempt from charges. Anyone travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the person convicted of the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees, including claimants, protected persons and applicants under the special immigration category for victims of domestic violence, when they enter New Zealand for the first time. Anyone entering New Zealand after a medical air transfer or rescue at sea. Patients travelling as part of the Ministry of Health High Cost Treatment Pool or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade New Zealand Medical Treatment Scheme. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau who are travelling to New Zealand for medical treatment. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau, travelling from a third country through New Zealand (staying less than 90 days) in order to return to the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau (staying at least 90 days). People being deported to New Zealand, defined as “returning offenders” (in the Returning Offenders (Management and Information) Act 2015) and any New Zealand citizen deported from Australia. Diplomats and consular staff, including their families, and official government representatives. Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: a New Zealander entering managed isolation because they left New Zealand to accompany a vulnerable or disabled person back to New Zealand someone needing to travel to or from New Zealand to receive medical treatment other compassionate grounds, including when a person has travelled to visit a seriously ill or dying close relative or attend a funeral or tangihanga, whether in New Zealand or overseas. People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice.
As with the Viking Bay vessel earlier this week, the public health risk from these results is considered to be low. The swabs were taken in Port Taranaki on Tuesday after reports of a flu-like illness on board as a precursor to a scheduled crew change. Standard Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) protocol, including the appropriate use of PPE, was used throughout the crew’s testing. After the tests were taken, the ship again departed from Port Taranaki and is now on its way to Lyttelton where the appropriate level of support can be provided. Health authorities are working on arrangements for the crew once they arrive at Lyttelton Port. This includes whether they quarantine aboard the ship or are transferred to a quarantine facility on shore. If any confirmed cases are to be transferred, that will also be done using standard IPC protocol. The Playa Zahara’s shipping agent and its crew are cooperating with officials to ensure the health of those aboard and the safety of the New Zealand public. Whole genome sequencing is underway.
Two crew had previously been reported as confirmed with the virus. All 15 affected crew have now been transferred to an on-shore quarantine facility in Wellington. Five crew members remaining on board to maintain the safety of the vessel have returned negative test results to date. They will be subject to additional testing in coming days. Of the crew who have now returned a positive result, 12 are regarded as being in the early stages of their infection.  One has returned a result indicating either a very early infection or a historical infection.  Further testing planned for today will help provide more information about this. Plans are in place for managing the remaining five crew members should any of them develop symptoms or be confirmed with COVID-19 from further testing while in quarantine on board the vessel. The transfer of the crew members was done with the appropriate precautions in place and following advice from the local regional public health service. Slightly over half of the crew have been at sea since February. They were joined by another nine other crew members who arrived in New Zealand on 5 July as part of the vessel’s scheduled crew change. One of the crew was confirmed last week to have the Delta variant.  No link has been shown between this case and any other cases previously identified in New Zealand. Genome sequencing of the 13 positive test results will begin today. The spread of COVID-19 within the crew reinforces the importance of bringing the ship back into port and transferring the crew to an on-shore quarantine facility.  This allows the public health risks to be appropriately managed and the crew to be kept in isolation until they have completed their 14 days isolation and recovered.
The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks
Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Five hundred and thirty rooms will be allocated across various managed isolation facilities in the Auckland region from July 28 to 8 August. Travellers will not need to book a place in MIQ through the online booking system. They will instead be automatically assigned a place in MIQ once booked on a managed return flight. People who have already applied for urgent and exceptional travel before 7pm last Friday 16 July and are eligible will be contacted directly about travel plans. These already processed eligible applications will be given priority for flights from July 28 to 8 August. Airlines will make any remaining seats available once the urgent and exceptional quota has been fully processed. Travellers must meet criteria outlined on the Unite against COVID-19 website. Read the criteria for managed return flights from NSW Anyone in Australia who is unable to return home to New Zealand at this time should continue to shelter in place and follow all local advice. Monitor the Unite against COVID-19 website for the latest information and register on SafeTravel to receive updates directly. New Zealanders in Australia who are in need of urgent consular assistance should contact the MFAT emergency consular line at +64 99 20 20 20 from overseas or 0800 30 10 30 in New Zealand.
Following strong uptake from the 60-plus and 55-plus age groups, COVID-19 vaccine bookings for New Zealanders aged 50-plus are being brought forward to Friday 13 August, earlier than planned. Being able to open another age band so quickly is a real confidence booster and shows how well New Zealand is embracing the vaccine. We opened 55-plus 10 days after 60-plus, instead of the planned two weeks, and are now opening 50-plus after 7 days. There are about 300,000 people in the 50-plus age group. Last week was the best yet in the vaccination programme. We reached 2 million doses on Tuesday. By the end of the week we passed more than 2,200,000 doses in total. On the Wednesday we set a record of 45,082 doses in one day across the country. The booking system continues to perform well with a record 296,650 vaccinations booked last week. We now have 1,009,536 vaccinations booked in the system. Over the last 3 days the 0800 call centre handled 27,695 calls with an average wait time of less than 1 minute. This is a great all round response and means we are in position to open the 50-plus age band for vaccinations earlier than planned. People in the 50-plus group who are eligible do not have to wait to receive an invitation. They can make their own booking from Friday 13 August at 8am by visiting bookmyvaccine.covid19.health.nz (external link) , or by calling the 0800 28 29 26 COVID Vaccination Healthline (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). People in other groups who are eligible and who are not vaccinated yet can also continue to book — there is no cut-off. Consignments of the vaccine continue to arrive as expected. One million doses of the vaccine were delivered in July, and another 1.5 million will be delivered in August, 388,000 of these arriving yesterday morning.
There are about 300,000 people in this group. People in the 55-plus age band who have not already been vaccinated will receive an invitation by letter, text and email, or they can go to Book My Vaccine to make an appointment, Ministry of Health Primary Care Lead Vaccination and Immunisation Programme Dr Joe Bourne says. "Because of the great response we are seeing from the earlier groups, we are now in position to open the 55-plus age band for vaccinations earlier than we planned," Dr Bourne says. "This is also due to the hard work of district health boards, which continue to add capacity to their vaccination programmes." People in this group who are eligible do not have to wait to receive an invitation. They can make their own booking by visiting bookmyvaccine.covid19.health.nz (external link) , or by calling the 0800 28 29 26 COVID Vaccination Healthline (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). People in other groups who are eligible and who are not vaccinated yet can also continue to book — there is no cut-off and they will not miss out. "Thanks to everyone who has booked their vaccine. It is great to be able to offer the next group of people the chance to book earlier than originally planned," Dr Bourne says. "This is a clear indication that the programme is on track to give every eligible New Zealander the opportunity to be vaccinated by the end of the year. We are also receiving very positive feedback from people who have already used the booking and vaccination process. It is proving to be efficient and easy to use." "We now have the supply we need to continue to open age bands. One million doses of the vaccine were delivered in July, and another 1.5 million will be delivered in August. "Our capacity to vaccinate people is increasing each week, as is the number of sites where people can be vaccinated. "In particular, we are getting more primary care sites coming on stream to administer the vaccine. As at 4 August, there were more than 350 active primary care sites administering the COVID-19 vaccine throughout the country. The majority of these are GP practices but this group also includes pharmacies and hauora. "A whānau-centred approach to vaccinations also means that whānau Māori and Pacific families can be vaccinated together when a member of the family is eligible to be vaccinated. "By getting vaccinated people are protecting themselves their whānau and playing their part in protecting New Zealand — it will save lives and help us to open up the country further." More than 317,000 bookings have been made in Book My Vaccine since New Zealanders aged 60 to 64 became eligible on 28 July. There are now more than 950,000 active bookings in Book My Vaccine.
The results also show the variant isn’t linked to any previously confirmed COVID-19 cases in New Zealand. Three of the crew members have again returned negative results today following further testing. The health and welfare of the crew, and wider public health issues, are being overseen by Southern DHB’s Medical Officers of Health, who are working closely with maritime, port and other government agencies. All crew who have tested positive will remain quarantined on board the vessel at this time, where they will maintain the minimum functions at the port. They will not have direct contact with any port staff while maintaining these functions. Plans have now been finalised to ensure the three negative crew members, including the ship’s captain, are able to safely leave the ship and isolate away from the crew members who are positive. In some cases, it is safer to manage the smaller group of negative cases, by taking them off the ship. Two of the crew members will be transported to a Christchurch-based quarantine facility using a well-planned securely managed transport plan, including the use of Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) protocols. The captain will isolate securely in DHB-provided accommodation to ensure he is able to isolate in close proximity to the Mattina. As captain, he must remain close by in case of emergency. Transportation from the ship to quarantine for the three members who have tested COVID-19 negative will be done under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. Around the clock security will be on site at the DHB accommodation to ensure full compliance by the captain. If the captain does need to return to the Mattina urgently, plans are in place to manage this securely. These plans have been put in place to ensure the safety of the negative crew members at the same time as the health and wellbeing of members of the community.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 1-10 of 457 updates 09 Aug 2021 Bookings for people aged 50 and over will open on Friday, 13 August. There are about 300,000 people in the 50-plus age group. 09 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2021 Testing of the crew of a container ship, the Rio De La Plata at sea off the coast of Tauranga, has confirmed 11 of the 21 crew are positive for COVID-19. 08 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2021 From 6 August, New Zealanders aged 55 to 59 will be able to book their COVID-19 vaccine, five days earlier than planned. 04 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1.00pm. 03 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 11-20 of 457 updates 31 Jul 2021 Public health officials in New Zealand have this afternoon been in contact with their Queensland counterparts after authorities announced a snap lockdown there. 30 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Jul 2021 Remaining travellers in Australia (except NSW) are urged to book a seat immediately. 29 Jul 2021 The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine has been granted provisional approval by Medsafe. 28 Jul 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 12:30pm. 27 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jul 2021 A positive test result was detected from a wastewater sample in New Plymouth. A follow-up sample taken yesterday has returned a second positive result. 23 Jul 2021 Quarantine-free travel from all Australian states and territories to New Zealand is being suspended as the COVID-19 situation there worsens. 23 Jul 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 21-30 of 457 updates 23 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jul 2021 An 0800 number will be launched today, allowing Group 3 people who haven’t yet received an invitation for their COVID-19 vaccination to make an appointment. 23 Jul 2021 Results of whole genome sequencing from nine crew members of the MS Mattina show they have the Delta variant of COVID-19. 22 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jul 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Jul 2021 Quarantine-free travel from South Australia to New Zealand will be paused from 11:59pm (NZT) on 20 July. 20 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jul 2021 Nine crew members onboard the Mattina container ship have now tested positive for COVID-19. 19 Jul 2021 The pause on quarantine-free travel from Victoria to New Zealand will be extended for now, the Ministry of Health has confirmed. 19 Jul 2021 Further space in Managed Isolation and Quarantine has been set aside for managed return flights from New South Wales.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 31-40 of 457 updates 19 Jul 2021 Two symptomatic crew members onboard the Mattina container ship, currently in quarantine in Bluff, have tested positive for COVID-19. 19 Jul 2021 More than 370,000 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine arrived ahead of schedule yesterday. 19 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Jul 2021 The spaces set aside for urgent or exceptional circumstances have been fully allocated for managed return flights from New South Wales. 16 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2021 Quarantine-free travel from Victoria to New Zealand will be paused from 1:59am (NZT) Friday. 15 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2021 The Ministry of Health is today confirming 16 of the 18 crew of the Spanish-flagged shipping vessel the Playa Zahara have tested positive for COVID-19. 14 Jul 2021 The Government is seeking further advice from public health officials following seven new positive cases of COVID-19 in Victoria today. 14 Jul 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 41-50 of 457 updates 14 Jul 2021 All frontline border workers who are required to be regularly tested for COVID-19 will soon be able to choose regular saliva testing. 13 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Jul 2021 The Ministry of Health has received confirmation of an additional 13 positive tests to COVID-19 for crew from the quarantined fishing vessel Viking Bay. 12 Jul 2021 The new order will extend to cover a further 1,800 currently unvaccinated active border workers. It will come into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. 12 Jul 2021 Managed return flights will begin from tomorrow. 12 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jul 2021 14 days in managed isolation at MIQ to be a temporary requirement for managed return travellers from the state. 09 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jul 2021 Research indicates 75% of New Zealanders feel like the country is heading in the right direction, and for the most part, COVID-19 is not impacting their future. 08 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 411-420 of 457 updates 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 421-430 of 457 updates 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 431-440 of 457 updates 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 441-450 of 457 updates 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 451-457 of 457 updates 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 51-60 of 457 updates 08 Jul 2021 The Government welcomes the release of papers from the Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group into the Auckland February cluster. 07 Jul 2021 New Zealand’s regulatory authority Medsafe has granted provisional approval of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine for individuals 18 years of age and older. 07 Jul 2021 The pause on quarantine-free travel from Queensland and New South Wales to New Zealand will continue, the Ministry of Health has confirmed. 07 Jul 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Jul 2021 Two mariners have tested positive for COVID-19. They are currently isolating on a vessel at sea off the coast of Taranaki. 06 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jul 2021 New Zealand's largest shipment of Pfizer vaccines yet has arrived 2 days ahead of schedule. 05 Jul 2021 The Government will further ease Australia travel bubble restrictions at 11:59pm (NZT) Friday, 9 July. 05 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home Alert Levels and updates Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we have got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you are sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we have learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we have done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it is useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we have got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. --- Section Separator --- How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you are sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we have learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we have done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it is useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department for the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
When a significant event happens in a region, we will publish information on this page.
Home Alert Levels and updates Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely during different Alert Levels and financial support. Resources for businesses, including how to get your QR code poster, a toolkit with posters for your workplace, and a business helpline. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals stranded in NZ. --- Section Separator --- Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely during different Alert Levels and financial support. Resources for businesses, including how to get your QR code poster, a toolkit with posters for your workplace, and a business helpline. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals stranded in NZ.
How to display your QR code poster, and have an alternative contact tracing system with templates. At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. At Alert Level 2, businesses need to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- How to display your QR code poster, and have an alternative contact tracing system with templates. At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. At Alert Level 2, businesses need to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
Home Business and money Businesses Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace. If a case of COVID-19 is identified, the Ministry of Health will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to the virus. Contact tracing slows the spread of COVID-19. Contact tracing helps keep you, your whānau and community safe by: letting people know they may have been exposed to COVID-19 helping people identify where they have been and who they have been in contact with helping the Ministry of Health contact people who may need to self-isolate or get a COVID-19 test. All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Encourage everyone - workers, customers and visitors to your workplace to sign in using the QR code. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential location of interest. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record. These include: an electronic system, like a tablet sign-in app, work time-sheets or an existing booking system a paper register using individual slips and a ballot box for storage asking an employee to manually record visitors' details. We recommend that records include the person’s full name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Keep contact tracing records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it is necessary for contact tracing. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. When collecting people's information, it is your responsibility to: tell people that you are collecting their information to support contact tracing store any private information securely make sure the information collected is only used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. Store personal details in a way that protects everyone's privacy. Keep previous records out of sight. If personal information is not secured properly, it can expose people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you like. Contact tracing register — for staff to record visitors’ details [PDF, 249 KB] This is a page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You will need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] Find out how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace. If a case of COVID-19 is identified, the Ministry of Health will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to the virus. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing slows the spread of COVID-19. Contact tracing helps keep you, your whānau and community safe by: letting people know they may have been exposed to COVID-19 helping people identify where they have been and who they have been in contact with helping the Ministry of Health contact people who may need to self-isolate or get a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Encourage everyone - workers, customers and visitors to your workplace to sign in using the QR code. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential location of interest. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record. These include: an electronic system, like a tablet sign-in app, work time-sheets or an existing booking system a paper register using individual slips and a ballot box for storage asking an employee to manually record visitors' details. We recommend that records include the person’s full name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Keep contact tracing records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it is necessary for contact tracing. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. When collecting people's information, it is your responsibility to: tell people that you are collecting their information to support contact tracing store any private information securely make sure the information collected is only used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. Store personal details in a way that protects everyone's privacy. Keep previous records out of sight. If personal information is not secured properly, it can expose people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: --- Section Separator --- This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. --- Section Separator --- You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you like. Contact tracing register — for staff to record visitors’ details [PDF, 249 KB] This is a page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You will need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Find out how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: you display your QR code your workers stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work you encourage all workers to keep track of where they have been At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace Bluetooth tracing If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: are unwell, or have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19 have visited a location of interest have been asked to get a COVID-19 test If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: washing their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying them thoroughly coughing and sneezing into their elbow keeping shared surfaces clean avoiding sharing tools or personal objects. If workers do need to share items, encourage them to clean or sanitise them between uses. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers for all workers and customers, for example at entrances to your workplace. Regularly clean and disinfect shared spaces, including high touch areas such as counters, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and lift buttons. Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: limiting the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. Always discuss any changes with your workers first. --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: you display your QR code your workers stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work you encourage all workers to keep track of where they have been --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: are unwell, or have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19 have visited a location of interest have been asked to get a COVID-19 test If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. --- Section Separator --- Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: washing their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying them thoroughly coughing and sneezing into their elbow keeping shared surfaces clean avoiding sharing tools or personal objects. If workers do need to share items, encourage them to clean or sanitise them between uses. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers for all workers and customers, for example at entrances to your workplace. Regularly clean and disinfect shared spaces, including high touch areas such as counters, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and lift buttons. Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: limiting the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. Always discuss any changes with your workers first. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your workers about how you will keep them and others safe from exposure to COVID-19. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend workers wear a face covering if they are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Follow all other health and safety obligations. At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help . Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no limit on the number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. There is no limit on the number of people that can be inside a public facility, if people can safely be 1 metre apart. All public facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This may mean the facility needs to have less than 100 people in a defined space. All event facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Businesses can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. This include personal keep cups and in-house reusable coffee cup schemes. If you decide to allow resuable cups, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your workers about how you will keep them and others safe from exposure to COVID-19. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend workers wear a face covering if they are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Follow all other health and safety obligations. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help . Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no limit on the number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. There is no limit on the number of people that can be inside a public facility, if people can safely be 1 metre apart. All public facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This may mean the facility needs to have less than 100 people in a defined space. All event facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Businesses can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. This include personal keep cups and in-house reusable coffee cup schemes. If you decide to allow resuable cups, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. --- Section Separator --- You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If your business requires close physical contact, it cannot operate. We recommend people work from home if they can. You legally must display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend you make sure that people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or a health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. This includes physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Workers legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. We also recommend workers wear a face covering, and use personal protective equipment (PPE) if needed. There are different rules for essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. At Alert Level 3, businesses should self-assess their ability to meet the public health guidelines to decide if they can operate safely. If your business requires close physical contact it cannot open. If you do decide to operate, make sure you have a plan for keeping your workers, your customers and the community safe from COVID-19. Operating safely – what you need to think about (external link) Have ways for customers to pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We also recommend having contactless delivery or pick-up methods. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can open at Alert Level 3. Businesses that provide necessities should: try to reduce the number of physical interactions between workers and customers have appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures in place. Businesses can sell prepared food and drinks, but we recommend encouraging customers to consume them off-site. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail shops can only open to customers for delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Customers cannot enter your store to browse products, or consume food and drinks. You can decide if customers can use reusable cups and containers. If you do allow reusable cups, we recommend you follow food safety requirements. At Alert Level 3, most building and construction work can continue. COVID-19: Building and construction sector guidance (external link) All goods can be delivered, if it is contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. WorkSafe advice for delivery drivers (external link) You can provide certain services in home, if you can meet physical distancing requirements. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. Public facilities such as swimming pools, gyms, libraries and museums cannot open. If your workers have to travel during Alert Level 3, they will need to have proof that they are allowed to cross an Alert Level boundary. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your business requires close physical contact, it cannot operate. We recommend people work from home if they can. You legally must display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend you make sure that people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or a health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. This includes physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Workers legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. We also recommend workers wear a face covering, and use personal protective equipment (PPE) if needed. There are different rules for essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, businesses should self-assess their ability to meet the public health guidelines to decide if they can operate safely. If your business requires close physical contact it cannot open. If you do decide to operate, make sure you have a plan for keeping your workers, your customers and the community safe from COVID-19. Operating safely – what you need to think about (external link) Have ways for customers to pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We also recommend having contactless delivery or pick-up methods. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can open at Alert Level 3. Businesses that provide necessities should: try to reduce the number of physical interactions between workers and customers have appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures in place. Businesses can sell prepared food and drinks, but we recommend encouraging customers to consume them off-site. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail shops can only open to customers for delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Customers cannot enter your store to browse products, or consume food and drinks. You can decide if customers can use reusable cups and containers. If you do allow reusable cups, we recommend you follow food safety requirements. At Alert Level 3, most building and construction work can continue. COVID-19: Building and construction sector guidance (external link) All goods can be delivered, if it is contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. WorkSafe advice for delivery drivers (external link) You can provide certain services in home, if you can meet physical distancing requirements. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. Public facilities such as swimming pools, gyms, libraries and museums cannot open. --- Section Separator --- If your workers have to travel during Alert Level 3, they will need to have proof that they are allowed to cross an Alert Level boundary. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. --- Section Separator --- You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business and money Businesses Help finding new employees --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work-readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work-readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain.
Home Business and money Employment Careers advice --- Section Separator --- Careers.govt.nz has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers.govt.nz can help with: building your CV using LinkedIn effectively interview preparation, including for remote interviews understanding which jobs and industries are in demand career prospects in different industries retraining opportunities navigating recruiter websites and job vacancies support after being made redundant. Careers.govt.nz has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19: Use the skill-matcher tool to get job ideas based on your skills. Check on your career journey and find resources to help you. Compare jobs from the jobs database. Build your CV online. Know Your CV — Careers.govt.nz (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers.govt.nz also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) To talk to someone at Careers.govt.nz, call 0800 601 301 from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: career information finding what you need on the website suggesting what to do next. You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Careers.govt.nz has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers.govt.nz can help with: building your CV using LinkedIn effectively interview preparation, including for remote interviews understanding which jobs and industries are in demand career prospects in different industries retraining opportunities navigating recruiter websites and job vacancies support after being made redundant. Careers.govt.nz has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19: Use the skill-matcher tool to get job ideas based on your skills. Check on your career journey and find resources to help you. Compare jobs from the jobs database. Build your CV online. Know Your CV — Careers.govt.nz (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers.govt.nz also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) To talk to someone at Careers.govt.nz, call 0800 601 301 from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: career information finding what you need on the website suggesting what to do next. You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business and money Employment Find a job --- Section Separator --- Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. --- Section Separator --- If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business and money Employment In-demand industries --- Section Separator --- There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: growing food dairy farming, and sheep and beef making those things into high value products and taking them to the world. There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: on the farm as a herd manager, milker or farm assistant with animals in the agri-business sector advising farmers enhancing the environment as an agri-scientist. You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: planting and managing native and exotic forests looking after the forest environment managing people and resources working with state-of-the-art technology operating multi-million dollar machines and equipment. There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: growing food dairy farming, and sheep and beef making those things into high value products and taking them to the world. There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) --- Section Separator --- Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: on the farm as a herd manager, milker or farm assistant with animals in the agri-business sector advising farmers enhancing the environment as an agri-scientist. You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) --- Section Separator --- Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: planting and managing native and exotic forests looking after the forest environment managing people and resources working with state-of-the-art technology operating multi-million dollar machines and equipment. There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support.
Home Business and money Financial support COVID-19 financial support tool Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, if you are an employee or if you are in New Zealand on a temporary visa.
Home Business and money Financial support Businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. The payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses and sole traders affected by the latest Alert Level increase in the Wellington region can apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment if they meet the criteria. The Resurgence Support Payment is available nationally. This means businesses outside the Wellington region can also apply. Find out more information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. The payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses and sole traders affected by the latest Alert Level increase in the Wellington region can apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment if they meet the criteria. The Resurgence Support Payment is available nationally. This means businesses outside the Wellington region can also apply. Find out more information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Individuals and whānau Businesses Foreign nationals stranded in NZ Communities and clubs
Home Business and money Financial support Communities and clubs --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Individuals and whānau Businesses Foreign nationals stranded in NZ Communities and clubs
Home Business and money Financial support Foreign nationals stranded in NZ --- Section Separator --- If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: have a current temporary New Zealand visa that is not sponsored, for example a visitor visa, student visa or work visa are in financial hardship with no other means of support — money to buy a flight home does not count as support either: are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are taking all reasonable steps to find other means of support, including looking for work; consular assistance; or support from family, friends and organisations in NZ or overseas have a valid passport have a New Zealand bank account have an Inland Revenue (IRD) number. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: have a current temporary New Zealand visa that is not sponsored, for example a visitor visa, student visa or work visa are in financial hardship with no other means of support — money to buy a flight home does not count as support either: are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are taking all reasonable steps to find other means of support, including looking for work; consular assistance; or support from family, friends and organisations in NZ or overseas have a valid passport have a New Zealand bank account have an Inland Revenue (IRD) number. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Individuals and whānau Businesses Foreign nationals stranded in NZ Communities and clubs
Home Business and money Financial support Individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Individuals and whānau Businesses Foreign nationals stranded in NZ Communities and clubs
Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. --- Section Separator --- Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses.
Home Business and money Resources for businesses Business helpline and resources --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to government business support advice on what Alert Levels mean for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to government business support advice on what Alert Levels mean for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster Signs and posters for your workplace Business helpline and resources
Home Business and money Resources for businesses Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you would like to be sent your QR code poster again so you can print more copies, email the NZ COVID Tracer support team at help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have the email address that the poster was sent to, and/or the business or service name printed on the poster, that will help the team find it for you. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could be airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This is not mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you would like to be sent your QR code poster again so you can print more copies, email the NZ COVID Tracer support team at help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have the email address that the poster was sent to, and/or the business or service name printed on the poster, that will help the team find it for you. --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could be airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This is not mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. --- Section Separator --- You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster Signs and posters for your workplace Business helpline and resources
Home Business and money Training and apprenticeships --- Section Separator --- Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Primary industries, including agriculture, horticulture and viticulture, fisheries (including aquaculture) and forestry Construction, including building, plumbing and civil engineering Community support, including youth work, care for elderly, counselling and community health, including mental health and addiction support Manufacturing and mechanical engineering and technology Electrical engineering Road transport Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: necessary medical, dental or optical costs unforeseen flatting or family problems exceptionally high course-related costs a disability or temporary illness that prevents part-time or holiday employment a change to your employment situation additional costs incurred by studying off campus increased living costs such as power. To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) There is renewed support for tertiary education learners whose training or education has been disrupted. Applications have re-opened for the Technology Access Fund for Learners following recent changes in COVID-19 Alert Levels. The fund is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission. The fund aims to help tertiary education organisations support learners to continue to access tertiary education and training disrupted by COVID-19. More information about the fund and how tertiary education organisations can apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Primary industries, including agriculture, horticulture and viticulture, fisheries (including aquaculture) and forestry Construction, including building, plumbing and civil engineering Community support, including youth work, care for elderly, counselling and community health, including mental health and addiction support Manufacturing and mechanical engineering and technology Electrical engineering Road transport Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: necessary medical, dental or optical costs unforeseen flatting or family problems exceptionally high course-related costs a disability or temporary illness that prevents part-time or holiday employment a change to your employment situation additional costs incurred by studying off campus increased living costs such as power. To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is renewed support for tertiary education learners whose training or education has been disrupted. Applications have re-opened for the Technology Access Fund for Learners following recent changes in COVID-19 Alert Levels. The fund is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission. The fund aims to help tertiary education organisations support learners to continue to access tertiary education and training disrupted by COVID-19. More information about the fund and how tertiary education organisations can apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Businesses Resources for businesses Employment Training and apprenticeships Financial support
If you're aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your COVID-19 vaccination now. Bookings for people aged 50 and over will open on Friday, 13 August. You might be interested in Book My Vaccine NZ Vaccine Facts Change or cancel your appointment Pregnancy and breastfeeding Side effects Safety and effectiveness Vaccination and work Karawhiua — information for Māori communities --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. Learn more about who’s in each of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups, and when they can book their vaccinations. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 1,386,643 First dose administered 1,386,643 First dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- Booking online with Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. If you’re not eligible to book yet, you can register so we can let you know when it’s your time to book. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination. Learn more about who is in each group and when they can book. Find out what group you are in Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Once it is your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. --- Section Separator --- Group 1 includes people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). It is mandatory for workers at MIQ facilities, ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 to get vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare worker (public or private) work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 16 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live with or care for an older Māori or Pacific person live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you: are aged 65 or over, or have a relevant underlying health condition, or are disabled, or are in a position of caring for a person with a disability, or are pregnant (any trimester), or are an adult in a custodial setting. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you are aged 16 and over and have not been eligible for a vaccination yet. It is a big group, with more than 2 million people, so we will break it down by age bands. Everyone aged 55 and over can now book their vaccinations. People aged 50 and over will be able to book their vaccinations from Friday, 13 August. The next age band is people aged 45 and over — bookings for this age band will open late August. People aged 35 and over will be able to book their vaccine from mid to late September. Everyone else will be able to book from October. These timings are estimates. Depending on vaccine supply and progress, invitations to other age groups may change. Once it is your time, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 16 and over will be able to be vaccinated by the end of the year. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination Apply for an early vaccination (external link)
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.
Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan – When will I get my vaccine? [PDF, 287 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan – When will I get my vaccine? [PDF, 287 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] --- Section Separator --- An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] Information about using the new national online booking system, Book My Vaccine, and the COVID Vaccination Healthline. Booking a COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.8 MB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] Information about using the new national online booking system, Book My Vaccine, and the COVID Vaccination Healthline. Booking a COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we did not start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet still needs to approve a ‘decision to use’ – their decision is expected by the end of June. Until then people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. The Delta variant is more readily transmitted than other variants but there is no evidence that it causes more severe disease. Data from England shows the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) How the vaccine protects you — Ministry of Health (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we did not start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet still needs to approve a ‘decision to use’ – their decision is expected by the end of June. Until then people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. The Delta variant is more readily transmitted than other variants but there is no evidence that it causes more severe disease. Data from England shows the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) How the vaccine protects you — Ministry of Health (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness COVID-19 vaccine resources
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it?
Find advice about the Pfizer vaccine for specific groups and health conditions. When it’s your time, you can book your vaccination appointments online or by phone. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Information for businesses and workers about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find advice about the Pfizer vaccine for specific groups and health conditions. When it’s your time, you can book your vaccination appointments online or by phone. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Information for businesses and workers about COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your vaccinations now. Bookings for people aged 50 and over will open on Friday, 13 August. Bookings for the rest of Aotearoa will open soon in age bands, from oldest to youngest. When it is your time to book, there is no cut off — you can book any time. Vaccine rollout groups Advice for specific groups and those with health conditions Booking online through Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. If you are not eligible to book yet, you can register so we can let you know when it’s your time to book. It will take around 5 minutes to book online. Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have any problems booking or need to change your details, you can email the Book My Vaccine team. Email: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz You can book over the phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . All calls are free, and the team are available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. You might have to wait a little while before your call is answered, as the lines can be busy — please be patient. Once your call is answered, it will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. When you call, it is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can find your NHI number on a prescription, x-ray or test result, or a letter from the hospital. If you were invited to book before 28 July, you may have been given an access code. This code is not needed to book anymore — you will just need to confirm that you are aged 60 or over, or in Groups 1, 2, or 3. Manage your appointments through Book My Vaccine (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 If you are unwell on the day of your appointment, you will need to reschedule it. You can be vaccinated once you are well again. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. As well as booked appointments, there will be other ways for people to be vaccinated. These will include workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. For some remote rural communities we will vaccinate all age groups at the same time to make it easier for them. Many doctors are also providing COVID-19 vaccinations and are taking bookings directly. To find out if your doctor or medical centre is offering this service, visit Healthpoint. COVID-19 vaccination — Healthpoint (external link) Whānau Māori and Pacific families can be vaccinated together when one member of the family is eligible to be vaccinated. To make a whānau booking, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). If you need formal proof of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a vaccination letter from the Ministry of Health. Digital certificates that record your COVID-19 vaccination status and test results are expected to be available later this year. COVID-19: Requesting proof of vaccination for overseas travel (external link) You may be able to get an early vaccination if you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Applying for an early vaccine for overseas travel — Ministry of Health (external link) It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. We will confirm your contact details through our records and your employer, then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. Your details should also be on the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). Please ask your employer to check that your name and details (including date of birth, phone number and NHI number) are correctly entered into the BWTR. If you are a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted about booking your vaccination, talk to your employer. Learn more about border and MIQ worker vaccinations COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your vaccinations now. Bookings for people aged 50 and over will open on Friday, 13 August. Bookings for the rest of Aotearoa will open soon in age bands, from oldest to youngest. When it is your time to book, there is no cut off — you can book any time. Vaccine rollout groups Advice for specific groups and those with health conditions --- Section Separator --- Booking online through Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. If you are not eligible to book yet, you can register so we can let you know when it’s your time to book. It will take around 5 minutes to book online. Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have any problems booking or need to change your details, you can email the Book My Vaccine team. Email: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- You can book over the phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . All calls are free, and the team are available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. You might have to wait a little while before your call is answered, as the lines can be busy — please be patient. Once your call is answered, it will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. When you call, it is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can find your NHI number on a prescription, x-ray or test result, or a letter from the hospital. --- Section Separator --- If you were invited to book before 28 July, you may have been given an access code. This code is not needed to book anymore — you will just need to confirm that you are aged 60 or over, or in Groups 1, 2, or 3. --- Section Separator --- Manage your appointments through Book My Vaccine (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 If you are unwell on the day of your appointment, you will need to reschedule it. You can be vaccinated once you are well again. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. --- Section Separator --- As well as booked appointments, there will be other ways for people to be vaccinated. These will include workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. For some remote rural communities we will vaccinate all age groups at the same time to make it easier for them. Many doctors are also providing COVID-19 vaccinations and are taking bookings directly. To find out if your doctor or medical centre is offering this service, visit Healthpoint. COVID-19 vaccination — Healthpoint (external link) Whānau Māori and Pacific families can be vaccinated together when one member of the family is eligible to be vaccinated. To make a whānau booking, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). --- Section Separator --- If you need formal proof of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a vaccination letter from the Ministry of Health. Digital certificates that record your COVID-19 vaccination status and test results are expected to be available later this year. COVID-19: Requesting proof of vaccination for overseas travel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may be able to get an early vaccination if you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Applying for an early vaccine for overseas travel — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. We will confirm your contact details through our records and your employer, then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. Your details should also be on the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). Please ask your employer to check that your name and details (including date of birth, phone number and NHI number) are correctly entered into the BWTR. If you are a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted about booking your vaccination, talk to your employer. Learn more about border and MIQ worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Vaccinations and work
It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become mandatory for most border workers (air and port) to be vaccinated. This is required by new legislation. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendments Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, aircraft or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for an aircraft, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated All government employees must have had their first dose by 26 August 2021. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September 2021. After the dates above, any new workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a border environment until they vaccinated. If you have not already been been invited to book, your employer or PCBU must enter your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). The BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. Alongside workers at MIQ facilities, workers at our ports and border are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become mandatory for most border workers (air and port) to be vaccinated. This is required by new legislation. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendments Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, aircraft or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for an aircraft, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated --- Section Separator --- All government employees must have had their first dose by 26 August 2021. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September 2021. After the dates above, any new workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. --- Section Separator --- Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a border environment until they vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- If you have not already been been invited to book, your employer or PCBU must enter your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). The BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. Alongside workers at MIQ facilities, workers at our ports and border are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Mandatory vaccinations for border and MIQ workers It is already compulsory for MIQ facility workers, some cabin crew, and Government officials that enter a high-risk border setting to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become compulsory for most port and border workers to be vaccinated. This is required by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021. To find out if a worker is affected Answer the following questions. Your results will tell you if a worker must get vaccinated, when by, and how to book their vaccinations. --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ worker vaccinations COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Resources for the border sector — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Vaccine information for businesses --- Section Separator --- A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: allowing them time off to get the vaccine talking to them about their leave and pay entitlements if they need time off to go to their appointment or if they feel unwell after getting the vaccine talking to them about the safety of the vaccine, and how getting vaccinated will help create a safe and healthy workplace for everyone respecting their privacy listening to their concerns. Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: directing them to official sources for accurate and up-to-date information, including: vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) checking everyone can access the information if they need it. As part of the vaccine rollout for Group 4, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: be a large workplace or employer — for example 1000+ employees and able to vaccinate several hundred staff per site or be a workplace that has high Māori, Pacific or ethnic populations and those who may find it harder to get a vaccination — for example, due to rural locations or shift work And will: have previously delivered a vaccine programme onsite and have an existing relationship with a vaccine provider and be able to provide staff to undertake specified roles and responsibilities, particularly around worker engagement. Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: allowing them time off to get the vaccine talking to them about their leave and pay entitlements if they need time off to go to their appointment or if they feel unwell after getting the vaccine talking to them about the safety of the vaccine, and how getting vaccinated will help create a safe and healthy workplace for everyone respecting their privacy listening to their concerns. Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: directing them to official sources for accurate and up-to-date information, including: vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) checking everyone can access the information if they need it. --- Section Separator --- As part of the vaccine rollout for Group 4, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: be a large workplace or employer — for example 1000+ employees and able to vaccinate several hundred staff per site or be a workplace that has high Māori, Pacific or ethnic populations and those who may find it harder to get a vaccination — for example, due to rural locations or shift work And will: have previously delivered a vaccine programme onsite and have an existing relationship with a vaccine provider and be able to provide staff to undertake specified roles and responsibilities, particularly around worker engagement. Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Vaccine information for workers --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Who can get a vaccination Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the Group 4 rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. --- Section Separator --- Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Who can get a vaccination Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the Group 4 rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. --- Section Separator --- Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. --- Section Separator --- Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. We will record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). You will be given a card that shows the date you have been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects If you need to change or cancel your appointment you can: manage your appointments through Book My Vaccine (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . If you’re unwell and cannot make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. We will record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). You will be given a card that shows the date you have been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects --- Section Separator --- If you need to change or cancel your appointment you can: manage your appointments through Book My Vaccine (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . If you’re unwell and cannot make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. --- Section Separator --- Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination --- Section Separator --- You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over — it doesn’t matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your vaccinations now. Bookings for the rest of Aotearoa will open soon in age bands, from oldest to youngest. When it’s your time to book, there’s no cut off — you can book any time. Vaccine rollout groups Book your COVID-19 vaccination People under the age of 16 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet is awaiting advice and guidance about when and how to use Pfizer for those aged 12 to 15 within the vaccine rollout. Until then, people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) The Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be highly effective and safe in people aged over 65 years. If you're aged 65 or over, you can book your vaccination now. Book your COVID-19 vaccination Consistently high efficacy of over 92% was observed in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine across age, sex, race, ethnicity, and people with underlying medical conditions. Vaccine advice for people with underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have an underlying health condition, you can book your vaccination now. Book your COVID-19 vaccination If you're aged 16 and over and disabled, you can book your vaccination now. Vaccine advice for disabled people — Ministry of Health (external link) Book your COVID-19 vaccination If you’ve had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. You shouldn’t get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine. What’s in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) If you’re unwell on the day of your appointment, you'll need to reschedule it. You can be vaccinated once you're well again. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Manage your appointments through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You should have the vaccine, even if you've had COVID-19. You should wait at least 4 weeks after you recover before getting the vaccine. For information about when you should get your flu, MMR and pregnancy vaccinations if you're also getting a COVID-19 vaccination, visit the Ministry of Health website. Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) A range of COVID-19 vaccines are being used internationally, including Pfizer (which is being used in New Zealand), AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen. You can get your COVID-19 vaccination at any stage of your pregnancy. We encourage you to get vaccinated because while you’re pregnant you can become very sick if you get COVID-19. There are no safety concerns about getting the Pfizer vaccine while you are breastfeeding. Vaccine advice for people who are pregnant or breastfeeding — Ministry of Health (external link) If you're pregnant (any trimester), you can book your vaccination now. Book your COVID-19 vaccination For advice about getting the Pfizer vaccine, talk to your doctor or other healthcare professional. The Ministry of Health website has information about getting the COVID-19 vaccination for people who are: taking antibiotics immunocompromised receiving cancer treatment living with HIV taking blood-thinning medication getting a CT scan getting a breast screen (mammogram). Underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) CT scans and mammograms — Ministry of Health (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) --- Section Separator --- You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over — it doesn’t matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your vaccinations now. Bookings for the rest of Aotearoa will open soon in age bands, from oldest to youngest. When it’s your time to book, there’s no cut off — you can book any time. Vaccine rollout groups Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- People under the age of 16 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet is awaiting advice and guidance about when and how to use Pfizer for those aged 12 to 15 within the vaccine rollout. Until then, people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be highly effective and safe in people aged over 65 years. If you're aged 65 or over, you can book your vaccination now. Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Consistently high efficacy of over 92% was observed in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine across age, sex, race, ethnicity, and people with underlying medical conditions. Vaccine advice for people with underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have an underlying health condition, you can book your vaccination now. Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you're aged 16 and over and disabled, you can book your vaccination now. Vaccine advice for disabled people — Ministry of Health (external link) Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you’ve had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. You shouldn’t get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine. What’s in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re unwell on the day of your appointment, you'll need to reschedule it. You can be vaccinated once you're well again. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Manage your appointments through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You should have the vaccine, even if you've had COVID-19. You should wait at least 4 weeks after you recover before getting the vaccine. --- Section Separator --- For information about when you should get your flu, MMR and pregnancy vaccinations if you're also getting a COVID-19 vaccination, visit the Ministry of Health website. Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A range of COVID-19 vaccines are being used internationally, including Pfizer (which is being used in New Zealand), AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen. --- Section Separator --- You can get your COVID-19 vaccination at any stage of your pregnancy. We encourage you to get vaccinated because while you’re pregnant you can become very sick if you get COVID-19. There are no safety concerns about getting the Pfizer vaccine while you are breastfeeding. Vaccine advice for people who are pregnant or breastfeeding — Ministry of Health (external link) If you're pregnant (any trimester), you can book your vaccination now. Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- For advice about getting the Pfizer vaccine, talk to your doctor or other healthcare professional. The Ministry of Health website has information about getting the COVID-19 vaccination for people who are: taking antibiotics immunocompromised receiving cancer treatment living with HIV taking blood-thinning medication getting a CT scan getting a breast screen (mammogram). Underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) CT scans and mammograms — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Vaccinations and work
If you're aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2, or 3, you can book your COVID-19 vaccination now. Bookings for people aged 50 and over will open on 13 August. You might be interested in Book My Vaccine NZ Vaccine Facts Change or cancel your appointment Pregnancy and breastfeeding Side effects Safety and effectiveness Vaccination and work Karawhiua — information for Māori communities --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. Learn more about who’s in each of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups, and when they can book their vaccinations. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 August 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 1,386,643 First dose administered 1,386,643 First dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered 820,825 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- Booking online with Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. If you’re not eligible to book yet, you can register so we can let you know when it’s your time to book. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been.
Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads and the current variants of concern. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads and the current variants of concern. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19.
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: sneezing and runny nose a new or worsening cough sore throat a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: sneezing and runny nose a new or worsening cough sore throat a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. More information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking - Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) At Alert Level 1, there iss freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. At Alert Level 2 we need to reduce our contact with others. There is still some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it is difficult to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know, for example in shops. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes a list of health conditions and guidance on how you can live your life as normal as possible at Alert Level 3. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. More information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking - Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there iss freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 we need to reduce our contact with others. There is still some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it is difficult to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know, for example in shops. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes a list of health conditions and guidance on how you can live your life as normal as possible at Alert Level 3. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we are in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we are in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. What to do if you visited locations of interest in New Zealand, Australia and the Cook Islands. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. What to do if you visited locations of interest in New Zealand, Australia and the Cook Islands. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instruction on what to do. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. COVID-19 symptoms can include one or more of the following: new or worsening cough fever shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If the person who was at a location of interest develops symptoms, then secondary contacts should stay home until the contact returns a negative test result. If you are a secondary contact, you should watch for symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You will need to stay at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. --- Section Separator --- Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instruction on what to do. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. --- Section Separator --- If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. COVID-19 symptoms can include one or more of the following: new or worsening cough fever shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. --- Section Separator --- Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If the person who was at a location of interest develops symptoms, then secondary contacts should stay home until the contact returns a negative test result. If you are a secondary contact, you should watch for symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You will need to stay at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. The Ministry of Health will have advice for all contacts on what they need to do. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19 Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) You can also find locations of interest for quarantine-free travel areas: Locations of interest outside New Zealand The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert will not be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. The Ministry of Health will have advice for all contacts on what they need to do. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) You can also find locations of interest for quarantine-free travel areas: Locations of interest outside New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert will not be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
What to do if you visited locations of interest in New Zealand, Australia and the Cook Islands. Find any locations of interest ACT New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you've been in Australia, continue to check the locations of interest pages for the states or territories you've been in. If you've been at a location of interest you must: isolate call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to register, and for advice on testing and isolation follow the health advice. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including Australians currently in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. The Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health | health.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Version 6.0.0 includes: the ability to use a previous scan and save locations you go to frequently to manually backfill your diary reminder notifications when you have not scanned or added a location to your diary recently an indicator on the scan screen making it easier to see when Bluetooth tracing is inactive illustrated guides that make it easier to understand how the app and features work. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: scan QR codes to create a private digital diary of the places you visit — the more we scan the safer we will be use Bluetooth tracing to keep an anonymised record of the people you have been near — turn it on under the 'Dashboard' section register your contact details in the 'My data' section so contact tracers can get in touch if they need to How to register your information (external link) save your National Health Index (NHI) number in the 'My data' section to speed up the process if you need a test Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link) add more details after you have scanned a QR code in the text box, such as who you are with or what you were doing — it is a great way to keep track of friends or whānau who do not have the app add a manual entry if you cannot scan a QR code — you can view and edit your diary at any time use a previous scan to manually backfill your diary save locations you go to frequently. --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you have been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you have been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you have been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe Bluetooth tracing: It is an early warning Bluetooth tracing and scanning work together --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: businesses or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you are there, and when you can safely return home. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you are there, and when you can safely return home.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Community Testing Centres --- Section Separator --- If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Search for a testing location near you (external link) Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have cold or flu symptoms, it is important to stay home and get a COVID-19 test as soon as possible. You should continue to stay at home until you have received a negative test result. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you are told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have cold or flu symptoms, it is important to stay home and get a COVID-19 test as soon as possible. You should continue to stay at home until you have received a negative test result. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you are told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don not need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don not need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 - a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 - a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you are eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it is safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It is important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you are unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. --- Section Separator --- Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you are eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it is safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you are unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing In an emergency --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing.
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Free tools, resources and apps --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 | depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) --- Section Separator --- Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 | depression.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) It's illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harm, illegal material or inappropriate online contact It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) It's illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harm, illegal material or inappropriate online contact --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 — a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk. Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 — a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk. Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealander’s on how to get a COVID-10 vaccination, out vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here’s how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealander’s on how to get a COVID-10 vaccination, out vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here’s how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) --- Section Separator --- CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. --- Section Separator --- If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. If in doubt, rule it out. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. You legally must wear a face covering whenever you are on public transport, including flights. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself. You are also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Keep our persistence and socially distance. Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Clean surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to around 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to around 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them from getting on your hands. A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Wearing a face covering is an extra protective physical barrier to help keep you and others safe by stopping the spread of COVID-19. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. You can also cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put them in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them from getting on your hands. --- Section Separator --- A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Wearing a face covering is an extra protective physical barrier to help keep you and others safe by stopping the spread of COVID-19. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. --- Section Separator --- You can also cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put them in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you have been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poser if you are a: business or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you have been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poser if you are a: business or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you are sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will make contact tracing harder. This means making the space when you are in places like playgrounds, parks, businesses, shops, or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre distance in ‘controlled environments’. This is where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants, and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you are sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will make contact tracing harder. This means making the space when you are in places like playgrounds, parks, businesses, shops, or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre distance in ‘controlled environments’. This is where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants, and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: sneezing and runny nose a new or worsening cough sore throat a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you are unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you are feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can open. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible. Keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you are unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It is OK for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you are unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water or putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate from others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house. Both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for drying your hands after washing them. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. You can wash dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide you with laundry items. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you are no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: sneezing and runny nose a new or worsening cough sore throat a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you are unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you are feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can open. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible. Keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. --- Section Separator --- While you are unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It is OK for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you are unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. --- Section Separator --- Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water or putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate from others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house. Both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for drying your hands after washing them. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. --- Section Separator --- We recommend doing your own laundry. You can wash dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide you with laundry items. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you are no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. --- Section Separator --- You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse hands with running water. Dry hands thoroughly. Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands, as long as you use soap. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. When done correctly. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse hands with running water. Dry hands thoroughly. --- Section Separator --- Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands, as long as you use soap. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. When done correctly. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only one part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you are outside your home and in a place where it is hard to keep your distance from other people. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on pre-booked public transport services within an Alert Level 1 area — bus or train services that collect your contact details before they depart, and allocate you a seat on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) When you wear a face covering, it is important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, we recommend people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are at risk, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only one part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you are outside your home and in a place where it is hard to keep your distance from other people. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on pre-booked public transport services within an Alert Level 1 area — bus or train services that collect your contact details before they depart, and allocate you a seat on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you wear a face covering, it is important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, we recommend people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are at risk, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. --- Section Separator --- Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. --- Section Separator --- Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
--- Section Separator --- Information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information specifically for disabled people. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information specifically for disabled people. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support.
All COVID-19 vaccination information is constantly under review. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Order information about COVID-19 in braille format. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Order information about COVID-19 in braille format.
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Email admin@abcnz.org.nz Call 04 389 0033 or 0800 222 694 --- Section Separator --- If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Email admin@abcnz.org.nz Call 04 389 0033 or 0800 222 694 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] An update about COVID-19 vaccines [DOCX, 6.3 MB] An update about COVID-19 vaccines [PDF, 1.4 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 13 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 3.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.8 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.2 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.1 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.5 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card The COVID-19 vaccination record card has recently been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card - new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card - new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card - old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card - old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 8.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.9 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 6.3 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 900 KB] Changes to quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand [DOCX, 6.2 MB] Changes to quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand [PDF, 1.8 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.6 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 13 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- An update about COVID-19 vaccines [DOCX, 6.3 MB] An update about COVID-19 vaccines [PDF, 1.4 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 13 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 3.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.8 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.2 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.1 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.5 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card The COVID-19 vaccination record card has recently been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card - new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card - new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card - old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card - old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 8.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.9 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 6.3 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 900 KB] Changes to quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand [DOCX, 6.2 MB] Changes to quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand [PDF, 1.8 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.6 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 13 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we are using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB] How to book your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [DOCX, 72 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] Fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] Closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] How to book your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [MP3, 371 KB] Information about quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and other countries. Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [DOCX, 41 KB] Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [MP3, 983 KB] Information about living at Alert Level 1. Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 75 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 3.5 MB] Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth and personal protective equipment (PPE) Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we are using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB] How to book your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [DOCX, 72 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] Fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] Closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] How to book your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [MP3, 371 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and other countries. Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [DOCX, 41 KB] Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [MP3, 983 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about living at Alert Level 1. Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 75 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth and personal protective equipment (PPE) Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) COVID-19 vaccines rollout plan (external link) Group 1 — Protect our border and MIQ workers (external link) Group 2 — Protect our high-risk frontline workers and people living in high-risk places (external link) Group 3 — Protect the people who are at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 (external link) Group 4 — Protect everyone (external link) Information about Group 4 vaccinations (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines rollout plan (external link) Group 1 — Protect our border and MIQ workers (external link) Group 2 — Protect our high-risk frontline workers and people living in high-risk places (external link) Group 3 — Protect the people who are at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 (external link) Group 4 — Protect everyone (external link) Information about Group 4 vaccinations (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
This section contains information specifically for disabled people. Information in alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face coverings on public transport, including planes, at all Alert Levels. However, we know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and they will talk through other options with you. Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in rollout groups 1, 2 or 3, you can book your vaccination now. Bookings for the rest of Aotearoa will open soon in age bands, from oldest to youngest. Once it is your time to book, there is no cut off — you can book any time. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Group 1, 2 and 3 vaccinations are underway COVID-19 vaccine: How does the vaccine work? --- Section Separator --- Under the Health Code, you have the right to be told everything about your health and the care that you are receiving. You must give informed consent before any procedure takes place, including getting a vaccine. Before asking for your consent, your doctor or healthcare provider should clearly explain to you: what happens during the procedure what other options there might be what you can expect after the procedure any risks that may be associated with the procedure. You can also ask any questions that you may have about the procedure. For more information on informed consent, read ’Right 7’ of the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights. Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights (external link) --- Section Separator --- Supported decision-making is considered best practice by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with a Disability (UNCRPD), of which New Zealand is a signatory. Supported decision-making is recognised as a right for everyone in New Zealand. Supported decision-making is a way for people to make their own decisions based on their will and preferences, so they have control of their life. It ensures the person who needs support is at the centre of all decisions that concern them. Supported decision-making is different from ‘substitute decision-making’. Substitute decision-making is when someone else makes decisions for a person, including making decisions in the person’s best interests. Substitute decision-making has often been used: informally, by family or friends, or formally, such as an Enduring Power of Attorney or by service providers. However, now there is a move to supported decision-making. Supported decision-making | msd.govt.nz (external link) Ministry of Health COVID-19 vaccination program: Guidance and practical tools for supporting disabled people with decision-making and consent [PDF, 1.5 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand, when you use a health or disability service you have rights. The rights are called the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights or "the Code". You have the right to: be treated with respect be treated fairly dignity and independence have good care and support that fits your needs be told things in a way that you understand be told everything you need to know about your care and support make choices about your care and support have support decide if you want to be part of training, teaching, or research make a complaint. More information on your rights | hdc.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Information for Māori You might be interested in: Karawhiua vaccine campaign Information in te reo Māori Guidance for marae Physical distancing — including hongi and harirū Funerals and tangihanga Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- Karawhiua is a campaign for whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Karawhiua is led by Te Puni Kōkiri, co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite against COVID-19 teams. Learn more about vaccines at the Karawhiua website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- Whānau can go to work and school if they are not māuiui. Kura, kōhanga and puna reo are open for our tamariki. There are no restrictions on hui and gatherings. There are no restrictions on hongi and harirū. Face coverings must be worn on buses, trains and flights. Learn more about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, whānau and friends can still connect, but restrictions are in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Maintain physical distancing, including harirū and hongi Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we will be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
Home Iwi and communities Information for Māori Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people, and only for tangihanga or weddings. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2, they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Events, entertainment and public facilities at Alert Level 2 At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that do not require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people, and only for tangihanga or weddings. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2, they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Events, entertainment and public facilities at Alert Level 2 At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that do not require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guidance for marae
Home Iwi and communities Information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 55 or over, or you are in Groups 1, 2 or 3, you can book your vaccinations now. Bookings for the rest of Aotearoa will open soon in age bands, from oldest to youngest. When it is your time to book, there is no cut off — you can book any time. Vaccine rollout groups Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand.
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Buy local to support locals --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Community heroes Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- David Dewhurst is one of 80 volunteers who made up the QLDC COVID-19 Emergency Response Team from March to June 2020. With COVID-19 shutting our borders and businesses, thousands, mostly migrants, were out of work, unable to pay for groceries and rent, and ineligible for government support. Elderly and vulnerable community members were unable to shop safely to get essential groceries and medication. Anxiety rose, mental health and well-being suffered; the community responded. From March 24 to June 30, 23,342 requests for emergency support were submitted by 7,377 people living in the Queenstown Lakes area (population 39,153). Volunteers worked unpaid on a two-days on, two-days off roster to make hundreds of calls to people who had submitted requests for support. Through a rigorous needs assessment system, thousands of people were able to access the Civil Defence-funded supermarket voucher scheme to get food. Volunteers also responded to requests for accommodation, financial support, mental health assistance, assistance with pets, and language help. The QLDC Emergency Response Team was a semi-finalist in the Mitre 10 NZ Community of the Year 2021 awards (external link) . Watch David’s story (external link) --- Section Separator --- Manish Pandey is the vice president of Christchurch Multicultural Council. During the lockdown, Manish, in association with the Indian High Commission and community groups, assisted international students and new migrant families get access to food and other essentials. He also helped by translating official COVID-19 advice and news for the Indian community. Manish is a volunteer for the Office of Ethnic Communities as information facilitator on its Multilingual Information Network, working with OEC to help share important government information - ensuring New Zealand’s ethnic communities receive material in languages and ways that work for them. --- Section Separator --- Sikh temples around New Zealand responded to the national lockdown and the Alert Level 3 changes by distributing thousands of food parcels to hungry people. The Supreme Sikh Society observed that as the national lockdown continued last year, an increasing number of people were struggling to get access to food. During this time, the society estimated its temples distributed free meals and food parcels to 66,000 families from Auckland to Queenstown. For this work, the Society received the New Zealand Food Heroes People’s Choice Award in 2020. The award acknowledged: “The scale and compassion to vulnerable communities by the Supreme Sikh Society is impressive. Their timely and valuable response to the challenges of COVID show a dedication to the greater good.” In Auckland, Counties Manukau Police classified the Sikh temple in Takanini as an essential service provider where its Sikh volunteers even ensured a contactless system for collecting food where drivers were asked to drive in one gate, open their boot for a volunteer to load the parcel, before driving out through another gate. Sikh society wins prestigious award for service to community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Allen Lim is a horticulturalist at Jade Garden in the Selwyn District, near Christchurch. During lockdown last year when wholesale suppliers were shut, he donated vegetables to community food banks which were running out of food. He and his group of tramping friends had come up with the idea to supply food banks because they were aware of the food shortages. He says he couldn’t have done without his tramping group who helped to get the produce out of the ground because although there was a surplus of produce, he was struggling to keep up with the demand from the supermarkets at the time. --- Section Separator --- Rozina Shaheen, known as Tooba Habib, originally from Pakistan, moved to Christchurch in 2007. She is a well-known community leader and volunteer among Canterbury’s ethnic communities and is the women’s coordinator of Muslim Association of Canterbury. Tooba spent last year helping some of the 15 March Christchurch terror attack victims but also provided support and coordination for international students and their families left isolated in New Zealand because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She helped these families get access to financial assistance as part of her ‘Support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ’ programme. Tooba is grateful for the kind hearts of New Zealanders who provided emotional and financial support to those in the community who are in need. --- Section Separator --- Eva Chen is an Auckland Council Ethnicity Peoples Advisory Panel member and a Strategies for Kids, Information for Parents (SKIP) Champion with Oranga Tamariki’s SKIP programme working with immigrant communities. Eva co-founded the Wellbeing Charitable Trust which has been working with Asian communities since 2014. She led a COVID-19 support programme to help ensure that New Zealand’s Chinese communities had access to official COVID-19 information. Just before lockdown, Eva set up the Mt Albert Chinese business support group to ensure people remained connected and supported. A key aim was to prevent family harm during a stressful time. She helped provide daily COVID-19 information updates in Chinese. Since July 2020, her group has focused on post-COVID-19 support for individuals and families, helping with the consequences of bullying and racism. Wellbeing Charitable Trust (external link) --- Section Separator --- Narinder Singh Warraich, originally from northern India, is the president of the Canterbury Punjabi Association. During the national lockdown, Narinder and his team assisted international students, stranded visitors and new migrant families by distributing food and face masks. He translated COVID-19 advice and news and used community radio and social media to keep the community informed. After the lockdown, Narinder took the initiative of organising workshops for people who had lost their jobs. One job fair attracted over 120 participants and connected unemployed people to Work and Income Work Brokers. Christchurch City MP Dr Duncan Webb acknowledged the work of the Association with a Members’ motion in Parliament on 26 May 2020, asking the House to “express its gratitude to the Canterbury Punjabi Association for the outstanding work it did over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown in supporting both its own community and the wider Canterbury community by the provision of free food parcels to anyone in need, in keeping with the best Punjabi tradition of daswandh and selfless service”. --- Section Separator --- Jane Potts is a St John Volunteer Ambulance Officer in Darfield. She attended ambulance callouts at any time of the day or night through all Alert Levels during the lockdown. This was unpaid. It required her to leave her safety bubble in order to save lives. Jane was awarded a Selwyn District Council COVID Heroes Award for her selfless dedication and professionalism to the community. --- Section Separator --- Jessica Phuang led her police team of 11 ethnic liaison officers to ensure that ethnic communities did not become victims of scams or racism. They gathered feedback on challenges faced in dealing with different government agencies, and to give advice and suggestions to those agencies on how to meet the needs of these communities. The team also linked ethnic communities to appropriate service providers and helped keep them updated with COVID-19 news. Through some ethnic social media channels, they were able to counteract misinformation and co-opt these channels to work with police. The team also contacted international students and tourists stranded in New Zealand without support to ensure that they were getting assistance. --- Section Separator --- Russ Carroll was a key person in the supply line of essential goods for delivery to workers and communities. During lockdown, he managed the delivery of thousands of online orders made by New Zealanders isolating in their homes. His motivated team worked long hours during a time of great uncertainty. Physical distancing rules had to be implemented together with a lane system to allow staff to get around the shop safely and efficiently. Workers would handpick products, pack stock and process orders, dealing with up to 2,500 packages a day. Russ is grateful for the support he received from the company, which in turn meant he could offer the best support for his team during an unprecedented time. --- Section Separator --- Vincents Art Workshop is a Wellington social service that welcomes people with disabilities, those moving into the community from institutions, the unemployed, people on low incomes and others. During lockdown and throughout 2020, its tutors provided connections and activities for its community of artists. The Vincents Artist Group on Facebook grew to 188 members. Staff published tutorials on its Facebook page, website, YouTube and on the Arts Access Aotearoa Facebook page to keep its artists busy. Tutors were careful to suggest using art materials that were commonly available at home or in people’s gardens. Regular communication with all its artists was vital to keep everyone connected and safe. Staff often held phone conversations with artists, their family members or support people when there were concerns about some artists’ anxiety levels. The Vincents team continues to work with a focus on contact tracing and hygiene to protect its community. Vincents Art Workshop (external link) --- Section Separator --- With the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan Association acted quickly to share awareness and safety information. It initiated regular Facebook Live and Zoom meetings to help its 10,000 community members. These initiatives were expanded to wider communities to work collaboratively in other areas like child and elder welfare. Association members, including doctors, clinical nurses, health workers, emergency specialist nurses, pharmacists and mental health support workers, were able to respond to COVID-19-related enquiries from its members. Volunteers also mobilised in South Auckland, distributing free food parcels and personal protective equipment (PPE) to people in need irrespective of religious affiliation or ethnicity. The Association also helped in situations requiring end-of-life care, funerals, burials and emergencies during lockdown. Pakistan Association of New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Gatluak, originally from South Sudan, is a community advocate at the Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (ARCC). He’s the voice of forced migrant background communities (communities that lived as refugees in other countries and resettled here). In 2020, Gatluak shared COVID-19 information from the Ministry of Health with Sudanese community leaders and families in the US, Norway, France, UK, Denmark, Finland, Canada, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Egypt. He translated and relayed information to combat misinformation in Sudanese communities where accurate information was hard to access. During lockdowns in the Auckland region, he distributed face masks and food parcels to many Auckland communities, and used ARCC video and radio to broadcast messages of health and wellbeing. Find out more about Gatluak’s story (external link) Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (external link) --- Section Separator --- Tam is the President of Lakes District Multicultural Council (LDMC) and founder of the charity Baskets of Blessing.  During the lockdown last year, she initiated a migrant needs assessment survey to find out how to best support migrants. The survey results were shared with other South Island community groups and used to identify needs and gaps in the community. LDMC also delivered grocery and pharmacy vouchers and arranged for medical appointments for those who could not afford them. This summer, Tam’s work is focused on the rollout of various initiatives to support vulnerable groups, including providing COVID-19 information, distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), delivering self-care and wellness kits to those who are isolated or lonely, organising opportunities for connection for migrants and working with other groups to build community resilience. Lakes District Multicultural Council Facebook page (external link) Baskets of Blessing (external link) --- Section Separator --- Hero is the co-ordinator of ‘Toranj’, a fortnightly Plains FM radio programme and podcast in the Farsi language of the Iranian community. During the nationwide lockdown last year, Hero and the Christchurch Iranian Society team translated information and gave daily COVID-19 updates. This was critical at a time when ‘infodemic’ (or ‘fake news’) had become a serious obstacle to getting government-sanctioned science-based pandemic information. The Christchurch Iranian Society set up online classes to provide opportunities for people with limited English to learn new skills and/or pick up a hobby while the country navigated through the different Alert Levels. The programmes included yoga classes, cooking and photography — each given by qualified members of the Iranian community in New Zealand. Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alfie is a Plains FM broadcaster and producer of the Tagalog language programme Kabayan Radio for the Filipino community in Canterbury. His programme is also broadcast on Radio Southland in Invercargill. Over lockdown, Alfie broadcast important COVID-19 messages on Facebook Live from his garage and recorded and sent in another programme for Plains FM to broadcast weekly which included key messages from the Unite against COVID website. Alfie is continuing to broadcast his radio programme, giving advice and assistance to the Filipino community, including reminders on keeping safe from COVID-19. Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- James Roque, an Auckland-based comedian and writer who describes himself as the Filipino stepson of New Zealand comedy, was the face of the Human Rights Commission and the Office of Ethnic Communities’ Racism Is No Joke campaign. James was featured in a series of short videos discussing racist jokes, and why they are not OK. The Racism Is No Joke campaign was launched in July 2020 as a specific response to racism towards Chinese and other Asian people in New Zealand because of COVID-19. Using humour and insights from his own experience as the second generation of a Filipino migrant family, James sought to influence New Zealanders and increase public awareness of racial discrimination and its negative impact on Asian communities living here. James Roque's website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. --- Section Separator --- The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. --- Section Separator --- Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link) --- Section Separator --- Lepou was a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Sadly, Lepou recently passed away but her team is intent on carrying on the good works and service that she brought to her community. Listen to Samoa Feso’ota’i at Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe. --- Section Separator --- The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link)
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Community wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Iwi and communities Support your community See your own backyard --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te tāpui i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Booking your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate Vaccine basics Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate How to get a vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga Safety and development Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Te Haere Taratahi-Kore Quarantine-Free Travel Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate The COVID-19 virus and symptoms He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika Getting the right information matters Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau Testing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Te noho i te pae 1 Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Te akuaku Hygiene posters Tohu whakamana ki o marae Posters for your marae Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Ngā tāngata i pātata, ngā tāngata noa i pātata, ngā tāngata i pātata [PDF, 106 KB] Close contacts, casual plus contacts, casual contacts Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 119 KB] Travel safely
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te akuaku | Hygiene posters --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai. Me tapu tō poihau. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō poihau. Me 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o poihau kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake. Me haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori, ki te hokomaha tata hoki ki te hoko, kaua ko te mea pai rawa atu ki a koe. Katia ngā kaipakihi katoa e mahi kanohi ki te kanohi ana. Ka puare tonu ētahi kaipakihi engari ka tino rāhuitia. Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Me auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. Whāia ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Haurapa Mate Korona Aotearoa, mā te puka haurapa Mate Korona, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te haurapa pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Haere kia whakamātautauria koe mēnā kua pāngia koe e te maremare, e te rewharewha, e ngā tohu Mate Korona rānei. Hei whai tohutohu mō te whakamātaunga, waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 . Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai. Me tapu tō poihau. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō poihau. Me 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o poihau kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake. Me haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori, ki te hokomaha tata hoki ki te hoko, kaua ko te mea pai rawa atu ki a koe. Katia ngā kaipakihi katoa e mahi kanohi ki te kanohi ana. Ka puare tonu ētahi kaipakihi engari ka tino rāhuitia. Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Me auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. Whāia ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Haurapa Mate Korona Aotearoa, mā te puka haurapa Mate Korona, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te haurapa pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Haere kia whakamātautauria koe mēnā kua pāngia koe e te maremare, e te rewharewha, e ngā tohu Mate Korona rānei. Hei whai tohutohu mō te whakamātaunga, waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 . Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel --- Section Separator --- Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tutuki ngā here manene katoa me whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau wehe tōmua tōraro i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i te wehenga mēnā e haere mai ana koe i Ahitereiria. me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. --- Section Separator --- I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tutuki ngā here manene katoa me whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau wehe tōmua tōraro i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i te wehenga mēnā e haere mai ana koe i Ahitereiria. me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 ki te kimi he aha te āwhinatanga ā-pūtea e wātea ana ki a koe. Kei te wātea anake tēnei utauta i te reo Ingarihi. Ka uia ki a koe ētahi pātai kia mōhio ai ki ō āhuatanga whaiaro: tō tūnga mahi, hei tauira te korenga o tō tūranga mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 tō āhuatanga, hei tauira, kāore e taea e tō pakihi te whakahaere mahi mēnā kua whakaitia e tō wāhi mahi te mahi me te hua moni. Hei reira ka whakaatu te utauta ki a koe he aha ngā āwhinatanga, tautoko ā-pūtea hoki ka āheitia e koe, ā, ki hea koe tono ai, rapu ai i ētahi atu mōhiohio. Whakamahia te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 Mēnā i whakakorehia tō tūranga mahi, i whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, tērā pea ka taea e koe tētahi penihana, tētahi atu āwhinatanga ā-pūtea mai i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka taea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina ki ngā utu kōhukihuki pērā i: te kai utu nohonga, hei tauira te rēti, mōkete rānei, utu noho, whare ohorere, te neke ki tētahi whare hōu te whakatika, whakahōu rānei i ngā pūrere te maimoatanga niho ohotata te maimoatanga hauora ohotata te whakakī anō i te taika wai Tautoko ā-pūtea, paearu māraurau, me pēhea te tono i te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te waea ki Te Hiranga Tangata i 0800 559 009 (external link) . Mēnā kei te māharahara koe mō tō āhei ki te utu i ngā pūtea tārewa nā te KOWHEORI-19, me whakapā wawe atu koe ki tō pēke, pakihi tuku pūtea rānei. Ka mahi ngā pēke me ētahi atu kaituku moni ki ngā kiritaki e taumahatia ana ā-pūtea. He mana ā-ture tō ngā kaimino ki te tono i ētahi panonitanga ki ā rātou utunga. Tērā ētahi kōwhiringa e wātea ana hei āwhina i a koe i tēnei wā taumaha. Ka taea e ngā ratonga e tautokotia ana e te kāwanatanga a Sorted me MoneyTalks te āwhina ki te whakarite mahere pūtea, ētahi atu kupu tohutohu ā-pūtea rānei. Mā Sorted koe e āwhina ki ngā tohuāki, ngā aratohu me ngā utauta tautoko ā-tuihono, ka taea rānei e koe te īmērā ki office@sorted.org.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu mōhiohio i te paetukutuku Sorted (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te kōrero ki ngā kaiāwhina pūtea i MoneyTalks. Waea ki 0800 345 123 (external link) Tuku pātuhi ki 4029 (external link) Īmēra ki help@moneytalks.co.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu kōrero i te paetukutuku a MoneyTalks (external link) Mēnā he kōkota rangitahi tāu, ā, kāore e taea te tautoko i a koe anō, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi Penihana Ohorere. Ko te Penihana Ohorere he utunga ā-wiki hei āwhina i a koe ki ngā utu noho taketake i te wā e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe koe ki te kāinga. Ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi i te Penihana Ohorere mēnā: he kōkota rangitahi nō Aotearoa kāore anō kia tautokona, hei tauira he kōkota manuhiri, ākonga, mahi rānei e tino pōhara ana, ā, kāore he huarahi tautoko kē ātu - kāore te moni hei hoko rerenga ki te kāinga e kīia ana he tautokotanga tērā rānei: e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga kei te whai i ngā hātepe tika katoa ki te kimi i ētahi atu huarahi tautoko, tae atu ki te kimi mahi; āwhinatanga mai i te whare māngai o tō whenua; tautoko rānei mai i te whānau, ngā hoa me ngā rōpū whakahaere i Aotearoa, i rāwāhi rānei he uruwhenua whaimana tāu he pūkete pēke o Aotearoa tāu he tau Tari Tāke (IRD) tāu. Ka taea te tono mō te Penihana Ohotata tae noa ki te 31 o Hereturikōkā 2021. Rapu mēnā ka taea e koe te Penihana Ohotata, ā, me pēhea te tono (external link) Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina mēnā kei te mōrearea koe, tētahi atu rānei. Ki te whakaaro koe ka tūkinotia pea tētahi tangata, ka tūkino rānei i a rātau anō, waea atu ki nga pirihimana, ahakoa kāore koe i te tino mōhio. Kia mataara tonu mō te haumarutanga me te oranga o ngā tamariki me ngā pākeke. Kōrero ki ō hoa, whānau me ngā hoa nohotata mēnā e hiahia tautoko ana koe, ki te kite rānei mehemea ka hiahia āwhina rātou. Whakamahia ngā pae pāpori hei noho tūhonohono tonu me te tiro kei te pēhea koutou. Mēnā he pārurenga koe o te whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai, māna he tangata rānei e whakawehi ana i a koe, e whakatumatuma ana i a koe, e whakatīwheta ana i a koe, me wawe te rapu āwhina. Kei a koe te mana kia noho haumaru. Rapua tētahi waea āwhina whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai hoki He maha ētahi atu ratonga tautoko me ngā ratonga taunaki hei āwhina i a koe. Mā Te Hiranga Tangata koe e āwhina ā-pūtea mēnā he iti ō pūtea, kāore rānei i te mahi, ka tautoko i a koe ki te rapu mahi me te āwhina ki te rapu wāhi noho. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Te Hiringa Tangata (external link) Waea ki: 0800 559 009 (external link) Ko Immigration Aotearoa e tiaki ana i ngā ture manene o Aotearoa, otirā e tautoko ana hoki i tō tātou tipunga ōhanga me te whakapakari i tō tātou hononga ki ētahi atu wāhi o te ao. Ka taea e rātau te āwhina ki te whakautu pātai mō ngā kōkota. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Immigration New Zealand (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i te Immigration New Zealand (external link) Waea: 0508 558 855 (external link) Ka taea e Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa te āwhina i a koe kia mārama ki ō motika me ō takohanga, me te tuku tautoko e matea ana ki te whakatutuki i ētahi mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Waea: 0800 367 222 (external link) Mā Employment NZ koe e āwhina mēnā he pātai āu mō tō tūranga mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Employment NZ (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Employment NZ (external link) Waea: 0800 20 90 20 (external link) Kei te tātai ratonga Whānau ngā mōhiohio mō ngā rōpū tautoko whānau me ngā ratonga me ngā hōtaka e whakaratoa ana e rātou hei tautoko i ngā whānau i Aotearoa. Haere ki te paetukutuku tātai ratonga Whānau (external link) Īmēra: updates@familyservices.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 ki te kimi he aha te āwhinatanga ā-pūtea e wātea ana ki a koe. Kei te wātea anake tēnei utauta i te reo Ingarihi. Ka uia ki a koe ētahi pātai kia mōhio ai ki ō āhuatanga whaiaro: tō tūnga mahi, hei tauira te korenga o tō tūranga mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 tō āhuatanga, hei tauira, kāore e taea e tō pakihi te whakahaere mahi mēnā kua whakaitia e tō wāhi mahi te mahi me te hua moni. Hei reira ka whakaatu te utauta ki a koe he aha ngā āwhinatanga, tautoko ā-pūtea hoki ka āheitia e koe, ā, ki hea koe tono ai, rapu ai i ētahi atu mōhiohio. Whakamahia te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 Mēnā i whakakorehia tō tūranga mahi, i whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, tērā pea ka taea e koe tētahi penihana, tētahi atu āwhinatanga ā-pūtea mai i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka taea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina ki ngā utu kōhukihuki pērā i: te kai utu nohonga, hei tauira te rēti, mōkete rānei, utu noho, whare ohorere, te neke ki tētahi whare hōu te whakatika, whakahōu rānei i ngā pūrere te maimoatanga niho ohotata te maimoatanga hauora ohotata te whakakī anō i te taika wai Tautoko ā-pūtea, paearu māraurau, me pēhea te tono i te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te waea ki Te Hiranga Tangata i 0800 559 009 (external link) . Mēnā kei te māharahara koe mō tō āhei ki te utu i ngā pūtea tārewa nā te KOWHEORI-19, me whakapā wawe atu koe ki tō pēke, pakihi tuku pūtea rānei. Ka mahi ngā pēke me ētahi atu kaituku moni ki ngā kiritaki e taumahatia ana ā-pūtea. He mana ā-ture tō ngā kaimino ki te tono i ētahi panonitanga ki ā rātou utunga. Tērā ētahi kōwhiringa e wātea ana hei āwhina i a koe i tēnei wā taumaha. Ka taea e ngā ratonga e tautokotia ana e te kāwanatanga a Sorted me MoneyTalks te āwhina ki te whakarite mahere pūtea, ētahi atu kupu tohutohu ā-pūtea rānei. Mā Sorted koe e āwhina ki ngā tohuāki, ngā aratohu me ngā utauta tautoko ā-tuihono, ka taea rānei e koe te īmērā ki office@sorted.org.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu mōhiohio i te paetukutuku Sorted (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te kōrero ki ngā kaiāwhina pūtea i MoneyTalks. Waea ki 0800 345 123 (external link) Tuku pātuhi ki 4029 (external link) Īmēra ki help@moneytalks.co.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu kōrero i te paetukutuku a MoneyTalks (external link) Mēnā he kōkota rangitahi tāu, ā, kāore e taea te tautoko i a koe anō, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi Penihana Ohorere. Ko te Penihana Ohorere he utunga ā-wiki hei āwhina i a koe ki ngā utu noho taketake i te wā e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe koe ki te kāinga. Ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi i te Penihana Ohorere mēnā: he kōkota rangitahi nō Aotearoa kāore anō kia tautokona, hei tauira he kōkota manuhiri, ākonga, mahi rānei e tino pōhara ana, ā, kāore he huarahi tautoko kē ātu - kāore te moni hei hoko rerenga ki te kāinga e kīia ana he tautokotanga tērā rānei: e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga kei te whai i ngā hātepe tika katoa ki te kimi i ētahi atu huarahi tautoko, tae atu ki te kimi mahi; āwhinatanga mai i te whare māngai o tō whenua; tautoko rānei mai i te whānau, ngā hoa me ngā rōpū whakahaere i Aotearoa, i rāwāhi rānei he uruwhenua whaimana tāu he pūkete pēke o Aotearoa tāu he tau Tari Tāke (IRD) tāu. Ka taea te tono mō te Penihana Ohotata tae noa ki te 31 o Hereturikōkā 2021. Rapu mēnā ka taea e koe te Penihana Ohotata, ā, me pēhea te tono (external link) Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina mēnā kei te mōrearea koe, tētahi atu rānei. Ki te whakaaro koe ka tūkinotia pea tētahi tangata, ka tūkino rānei i a rātau anō, waea atu ki nga pirihimana, ahakoa kāore koe i te tino mōhio. Kia mataara tonu mō te haumarutanga me te oranga o ngā tamariki me ngā pākeke. Kōrero ki ō hoa, whānau me ngā hoa nohotata mēnā e hiahia tautoko ana koe, ki te kite rānei mehemea ka hiahia āwhina rātou. Whakamahia ngā pae pāpori hei noho tūhonohono tonu me te tiro kei te pēhea koutou. Mēnā he pārurenga koe o te whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai, māna he tangata rānei e whakawehi ana i a koe, e whakatumatuma ana i a koe, e whakatīwheta ana i a koe, me wawe te rapu āwhina. Kei a koe te mana kia noho haumaru. Rapua tētahi waea āwhina whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai hoki He maha ētahi atu ratonga tautoko me ngā ratonga taunaki hei āwhina i a koe. Mā Te Hiranga Tangata koe e āwhina ā-pūtea mēnā he iti ō pūtea, kāore rānei i te mahi, ka tautoko i a koe ki te rapu mahi me te āwhina ki te rapu wāhi noho. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Te Hiringa Tangata (external link) Waea ki: 0800 559 009 (external link) Ko Immigration Aotearoa e tiaki ana i ngā ture manene o Aotearoa, otirā e tautoko ana hoki i tō tātou tipunga ōhanga me te whakapakari i tō tātou hononga ki ētahi atu wāhi o te ao. Ka taea e rātau te āwhina ki te whakautu pātai mō ngā kōkota. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Immigration New Zealand (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i te Immigration New Zealand (external link) Waea: 0508 558 855 (external link) Ka taea e Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa te āwhina i a koe kia mārama ki ō motika me ō takohanga, me te tuku tautoko e matea ana ki te whakatutuki i ētahi mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Waea: 0800 367 222 (external link) Mā Employment NZ koe e āwhina mēnā he pātai āu mō tō tūranga mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Employment NZ (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Employment NZ (external link) Waea: 0800 20 90 20 (external link) Kei te tātai ratonga Whānau ngā mōhiohio mō ngā rōpū tautoko whānau me ngā ratonga me ngā hōtaka e whakaratoa ana e rātou hei tautoko i ngā whānau i Aotearoa. Haere ki te paetukutuku tātai ratonga Whānau (external link) Īmēra: updates@familyservices.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese

Kia tae ki tō wā, ka taea e koe te tāpui i ō toronga kano ārai mate mā te ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. --- Section Separator --- Kia tae ki tō wā, ka taea e koe te tāpui i ō toronga kano ārai mate mā te ipurangi, mā te waea rānei.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. --- Section Separator --- Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tono mō te werohanga wawe KOWHEORI-19 | Applying for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tāpui i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Booking your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Te tono mō te whiwhinga kano ārai mate wawe mō ngā haerenga ki tāwāhi — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Kua whakaturehia ināianei me whiwhi ngā kaimahi i ngā ripa whenua me ngā whare whakamohoao, whakataratahi hoki (MIQ) i te kano hei ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā mātou e whakaū ō taipitopito whakapā mā ā mātou pūkete me tō kaitukumahi, ka whakapā atu ki a koe mō te tāpuitanga i ō toronga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Me mau hoki ō taipitopito ki te Rēhita Whakamātautau Hungamahi Ripa Whenua (BWTR). Tēnā pātai ki tō kaitukumahi ki te hihira mēnā e tika ana te whakaurunga o tō ingoa me ō taipitopito (tae atu ki tō rā whānau, nama waea me te tau NHI) ki te BWTR. Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ rānei koe, ā, kāore anō kia whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe mō te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ hoki --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Te tono mō te whiwhinga kano ārai mate wawe mō ngā haerenga ki tāwāhi — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Kua whakaturehia ināianei me whiwhi ngā kaimahi i ngā ripa whenua me ngā whare whakamohoao, whakataratahi hoki (MIQ) i te kano hei ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā mātou e whakaū ō taipitopito whakapā mā ā mātou pūkete me tō kaitukumahi, ka whakapā atu ki a koe mō te tāpuitanga i ō toronga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Me mau hoki ō taipitopito ki te Rēhita Whakamātautau Hungamahi Ripa Whenua (BWTR). Tēnā pātai ki tō kaitukumahi ki te hihira mēnā e tika ana te whakaurunga o tō ingoa me ō taipitopito (tae atu ki tō rā whānau, nama waea me te tau NHI) ki te BWTR. Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ rānei koe, ā, kāore anō kia whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe mō te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ hoki --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te werohanga kano ārai mate me tō mahi | Vaccination and your job --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ko wai e āhei ana ki tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? | Who can get a COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 16 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 16 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Rapua ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate me ngā āhuatanga me whai ina pā ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Rapua ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate me ngā āhuatanga me whai ina pā ki a koe.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: te whanaketanga, whakaaetanga me te haumarutanga | COVID-19 vaccines: development, approval and safety --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Pēhea te mahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | How the COVID-19 vaccine works --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga | How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā pānga kino o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate | Vaccine basics --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 16 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Rapua āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 21 rā, neke atu rānei (3 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 16 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Rapua āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 21 rā, neke atu rānei (3 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate | Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. Me pēhea te tāpui i ō whakaritenga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] How to book your free, COVID-19 vaccine appointments Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ, kaimahi hauora rānei, ā, he take hauora taketake tōu, he hauātanga rānei, e hapū ana, he pakeke ake i te 65 tau rānei, ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko te putanga ki te taupori whānui ka tatū ake i runga i te āhua o te pakeke o te tangata. I tēnei wā e tāpui ana mātou i ngā kano ārai mate mā te katoa i Aotearoa kei tua i te 55 tau te pakeke neke atu rānei Ka taea e te katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Kia tae ki tōu wā tāpui, kāore he kotinga — ka taea e koe te tāpui i ngā wā katoa. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 (external link) ) ki te whakarite tāpui. Ka taea e koe te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina hiahia koe. --- Section Separator --- Me pēhea te tāpui i ō whakaritenga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] How to book your free, COVID-19 vaccine appointments Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Posters --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 249 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you are waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please do not sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 249 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you are waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please do not sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Reconnection affects us all and everyone has a stake. The forum brings together experts to discuss the next steps in the reconnection strategy. Join the livestream at 9am on Thursday 12 August. --- Section Separator --- The forum will be livestreamed on the Unite against COVID-19 website to provide New Zealanders an opportunity to tune in and hear direct from the experts. When: 9am to 11am, Thursday 12 August --- Section Separator --- The forum starts with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, who will present an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. This will be followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts will bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event will also feature a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening and closing remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health.
Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey. --- Section Separator --- Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey.
Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice about how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice about how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand.
Home Travel Domestic travel Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you are sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: your need to travel across an Alert Level boundary is for an urgent, non-delayable reason, or anyone else (who does not need to cross the Alert Level boundary) can attend the event or perform the activity you need to get to. At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you are sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: your need to travel across an Alert Level boundary is for an urgent, non-delayable reason, or anyone else (who does not need to cross the Alert Level boundary) can attend the event or perform the activity you need to get to. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel
Home Travel Domestic travel Private vehicles --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit your vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you're unwell, stay at home. We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. Practise good hygiene habits. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption. Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Information about regional travel --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit your vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you're unwell, stay at home. We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. Practise good hygiene habits. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption. Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Information about regional travel --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel
Home Travel Domestic travel Public transport --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a COVID-19 test result or if you have been asked to self-isolate. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings — while passengers do not need to, we strongly encourage you to. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit public transport. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering, and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Keep a record of your journey. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Information about regional travel --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a COVID-19 test result or if you have been asked to self-isolate. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings — while passengers do not need to, we strongly encourage you to. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit public transport. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering, and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Keep a record of your journey. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Information about regional travel --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel
Home Travel Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you have recently arrived in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you have recently arrived in New Zealand.
Home Travel International travel and transit Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries and territories. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel, and what you might have to do if the COVID-19 situation changes. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia or the Cook Islands without needing to enter managed isolation. You must meet immigration requirements and eligibility criteria. Make sure you keep up to date on quarantine-free travel requirements. However, the New Zealand Government advises people in New Zealand "do not travel to Australia". Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries and territories. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel, and what you might have to do if the COVID-19 situation changes. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia or the Cook Islands without needing to enter managed isolation. You must meet immigration requirements and eligibility criteria. Make sure you keep up to date on quarantine-free travel requirements. However, the New Zealand Government advises people in New Zealand "do not travel to Australia". Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to secure a voucher and complete 14 days in our managed isolation and quarantine facilities. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation or quarantine stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Managed Isolation and Quarantine has introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting is also known as ‘group intake’. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. Doing this reduces the risk of transmitting COVID-19 inside the facilities. Special purpose facilities will not use cohorting, for example Jet Park, which is a quarantine facility. You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply How to apply for an exemption from managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to secure a voucher and complete 14 days in our managed isolation and quarantine facilities. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation or quarantine stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Managed Isolation and Quarantine has introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting is also known as ‘group intake’. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. Doing this reduces the risk of transmitting COVID-19 inside the facilities. Special purpose facilities will not use cohorting, for example Jet Park, which is a quarantine facility. --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply How to apply for an exemption from managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you have recently arrived in New Zealand and you are 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you are having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You will be invited to do the survey if you have recently arrived in New Zealand and you are 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. --- Section Separator --- The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you are having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] --- Section Separator --- MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You cannot transit New Zealand on your way to or from Australia. This is because of the quarantine-free travel arrangement between the 2 countries. If you arrive in New Zealand from elsewhere on a non-quarantine-free flight, you must spend 14 days in a managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) facility before you can travel on to Australia. Managed isolation and quarantine Quarantine-free travel with Australia Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You cannot transit New Zealand on your way to or from Australia. This is because of the quarantine-free travel arrangement between the 2 countries. If you arrive in New Zealand from elsewhere on a non-quarantine-free flight, you must spend 14 days in a managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) facility before you can travel on to Australia. Managed isolation and quarantine Quarantine-free travel with Australia --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel restrictions for very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil India Pakistan Papua New Guinea Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must remain airside. This means you will remain at the airport and not enter the country. All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) Countries have been designated very high risk where: there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1,000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil India Pakistan Papua New Guinea --- Section Separator --- Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must remain airside. This means you will remain at the airport and not enter the country. --- Section Separator --- All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- Countries have been designated very high risk where: there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1,000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. --- Section Separator --- Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India Brazil Papua New Guinea Pakistan Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India Brazil Papua New Guinea Pakistan Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. You may be interested in Find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter NZ Exemptions for pre-departure tests Approved types of tests Find testing locations Acceptable pre-departure documentation --- Section Separator --- Most travellers are required to have a negative pre-departure test result and approved documentation to enter New Zealand. Travellers from Australia (except NSW) are also now required to get a pre-departure test. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination, you will still need to take a test. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government.  Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. You need to have both your COVID-19 test sample taken and your result returned within 72 hours of the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. Pre-departure tests reduce the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health has confirmed the following types of test are acceptable for all countries — except Australia and very high risk countries: Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT), which includes PCR, RT-PCR and TMA, or LAMP, or antigen test (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Travellers from very high risk countries — Brazil, India, Pakistan and Papua New Guinea — must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You are responsible for the costs associated with your test. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. --- Section Separator --- You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests contain the following information for travel clearance: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result
Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information about travel from New South Wales to New Zealand. You can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information about travel from New South Wales to New Zealand. You can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Cook Islands Continues From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Continues Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands has never had a COVID-19 case and New Zealand has a great record of eliminating the virus. It is everyone’s responsibility to keep it that way. When travelling to the Cook Islands or New Zealand you will need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear, but we do have a plan for how we would handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances and location, it is useful to have a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases when you are travelling on Cook Islands green flights. For example, quarantine-free travel is operating as intended and there is low risk of transmission. Flights to and from the Cook Islands likely to continue. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. Keep a record of your movements — use the local COVID-19 tracer app or keep a paper record. If unwell, do not travel — stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to border. Affected area enters short-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be paused. We may move quickly from pause to suspension in the Cook Islands. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. When returning to the Cook Islands or NZ, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. For example, confirmed case of unknown source. Country enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be suspended for an extended period. Stay where you are, do not travel. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. Your return to NZ or the Cook Islands will be managed to minimise the risk of spread during travel. Travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. Be prepared: Download the CookSafe+ app or NZ COVID Tracer app before departure. There may be connectivity issues in the Cook Islands. Take extra medication, cash and other personal items in case you need to stay longer. Be aware additional costs and getting home are your responsibility. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You are required to complete a travel declaration before departure. You will be required to provide a health declaration and there will be random health checks at airports. Check out eligibility, what to expect and keep an eye on updates on Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and Covid19.gov.ck (external link) How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case [PDF, 97 KB] Ka ‘akape‘ea te teretere‘anga ki te Kūki ‘Airani, me e maki COVID-19 tetai [PDF, 96 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands has never had a COVID-19 case and New Zealand has a great record of eliminating the virus. It is everyone’s responsibility to keep it that way. When travelling to the Cook Islands or New Zealand you will need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear, but we do have a plan for how we would handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances and location, it is useful to have a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases when you are travelling on Cook Islands green flights. --- Section Separator --- For example, quarantine-free travel is operating as intended and there is low risk of transmission. Flights to and from the Cook Islands likely to continue. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. Keep a record of your movements — use the local COVID-19 tracer app or keep a paper record. If unwell, do not travel — stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to border. Affected area enters short-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be paused. We may move quickly from pause to suspension in the Cook Islands. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. When returning to the Cook Islands or NZ, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. --- Section Separator --- For example, confirmed case of unknown source. Country enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be suspended for an extended period. Stay where you are, do not travel. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. Your return to NZ or the Cook Islands will be managed to minimise the risk of spread during travel. Travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. --- Section Separator --- Be prepared: Download the CookSafe+ app or NZ COVID Tracer app before departure. There may be connectivity issues in the Cook Islands. Take extra medication, cash and other personal items in case you need to stay longer. Be aware additional costs and getting home are your responsibility. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You are required to complete a travel declaration before departure. You will be required to provide a health declaration and there will be random health checks at airports. --- Section Separator --- Check out eligibility, what to expect and keep an eye on updates on Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and Covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case [PDF, 97 KB] Ka ‘akape‘ea te teretere‘anga ki te Kūki ‘Airani, me e maki COVID-19 tetai [PDF, 96 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia New South Wales (NSW) Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue | health.govt.nz (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. --- Section Separator --- To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. --- Section Separator --- While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia New South Wales (NSW) Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You must complete a travel declaration before you depart for New Zealand. You cannot board your flight until you and your travelling companions have completed one, or had one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You must complete a travel declaration before you depart for New Zealand. You cannot board your flight until you and your travelling companions have completed one, or had one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia New South Wales (NSW) Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel New South Wales (NSW) --- Section Separator --- 6 August 2021: Managed return flights will operate from 9 to 22 August from NSW to get people home. Registrations for these flights have now closed. At this stage, there are no further managed return flights planned from anywhere in Australia to New Zealand. This is being constantly assessed. Flights will depend on MIQ capacity over the coming weeks and the demand for MIQ places from New Zealanders around the world. We will update this page with more information if managed return flights become available. Sign up if you would like email notifications about travel with Australia. Sign up now (external link) Quarantine-free travel from all Australian states and territories is suspended from 24 July. The suspension will continue for at least 8 weeks and will be reviewed in September. Managed return flights will operate from 9 to 22 August from NSW to get people home. People wishing to travel on these flights needed to register their interest by 2pm (NZT) on Tuesday 3 August. These registrations have now closed. At this stage, there is no update on future managed return flights from NSW to New Zealand. If you are travelling on a managed return flight, you legally must enter a managed isolation or quarantine facility (MIQ) for at least 14 days when you arrive in New Zealand. You will not have to pay for MIQ. Eligible people in NSW had until 2pm (NZT) on Tuesday 3 August to register interest in flights to New Zealand from 9 to 22 August. These registrations have closed. Your airline should contact you by Saturday 7 August to confirm if you are eligible to travel and your booking details. If you were unsuccessful in securing a place in MIQ, you will be contacted by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) before Saturday 7 August. If you are booked on a flight to New Zealand from NSW, you are automatically booked a place in MIQ. You do not need to do anything else to secure your place. You will be tested at your facility within 24 hours of your arrival, around day 3 and again around day 12. You do not have to pay to stay in MIQ when you have travelled from NSW on a managed return flight. This is a separate MIQ allocation for managed return flights. It does not affect the allocation of MIQ vouchers assigned to travellers from other countries. Before your managed return flight, we advise you to pack everything you need for 24 hours in your carry-on baggage. This is because you may go straight to your MIQ facility without your checked-in baggage. Your baggage will be delivered to your facility after you arrive. Things to pack include medicines, baby formula, clothes and toiletries. Follow the volume, quantity and weight limits specified by airlines and border officials. If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. This applies to managed return flights from NSW. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Locations of interest in Australia There are some things you must do to make sure you do not break New Zealand law. You may not be able to board the plane if you do not meet these requirements. We recommend you allow plenty of time at the airport to get all of your documentation checked. If you try to enter New Zealand by travelling from NSW through another Australian state: You will immediately be placed in a managed isolation facility and will undergo regular COVID-19 testing. You will be charged for your stay in the managed isolation facility. MIQ costs (external link) You may be fined up to $1,000. Follow our managed return flight plan, and follow all health and travel advice to ensure you are not charged. If you are unable to return to New Zealand at this time, you should continue to shelter in place and follow all local advice. If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia if the situation changes (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you are stranded in Australia and you need urgent consular assistance, call the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) emergency consular line at +64 99 20 20 20 from overseas or 0800 30 10 30 in New Zealand. If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on self-isolating and testing. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) A section 70 order underscores the importance of you following the advice. If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. If you have recently returned to New Zealand, make sure you check the locations of interest in Australia often. You should do this because more are added every day. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- 6 August 2021: Managed return flights will operate from 9 to 22 August from NSW to get people home. Registrations for these flights have now closed. At this stage, there are no further managed return flights planned from anywhere in Australia to New Zealand. This is being constantly assessed. Flights will depend on MIQ capacity over the coming weeks and the demand for MIQ places from New Zealanders around the world. We will update this page with more information if managed return flights become available. --- Section Separator --- Sign up if you would like email notifications about travel with Australia. Sign up now (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from all Australian states and territories is suspended from 24 July. The suspension will continue for at least 8 weeks and will be reviewed in September. --- Section Separator --- Managed return flights will operate from 9 to 22 August from NSW to get people home. People wishing to travel on these flights needed to register their interest by 2pm (NZT) on Tuesday 3 August. These registrations have now closed. At this stage, there is no update on future managed return flights from NSW to New Zealand. If you are travelling on a managed return flight, you legally must enter a managed isolation or quarantine facility (MIQ) for at least 14 days when you arrive in New Zealand. You will not have to pay for MIQ. --- Section Separator --- Eligible people in NSW had until 2pm (NZT) on Tuesday 3 August to register interest in flights to New Zealand from 9 to 22 August. These registrations have closed. Your airline should contact you by Saturday 7 August to confirm if you are eligible to travel and your booking details. If you were unsuccessful in securing a place in MIQ, you will be contacted by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) before Saturday 7 August. --- Section Separator --- If you are booked on a flight to New Zealand from NSW, you are automatically booked a place in MIQ. You do not need to do anything else to secure your place. You will be tested at your facility within 24 hours of your arrival, around day 3 and again around day 12. You do not have to pay to stay in MIQ when you have travelled from NSW on a managed return flight. This is a separate MIQ allocation for managed return flights. It does not affect the allocation of MIQ vouchers assigned to travellers from other countries. Before your managed return flight, we advise you to pack everything you need for 24 hours in your carry-on baggage. This is because you may go straight to your MIQ facility without your checked-in baggage. Your baggage will be delivered to your facility after you arrive. Things to pack include medicines, baby formula, clothes and toiletries. Follow the volume, quantity and weight limits specified by airlines and border officials. --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. This applies to managed return flights from NSW. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- There are some things you must do to make sure you do not break New Zealand law. You may not be able to board the plane if you do not meet these requirements. We recommend you allow plenty of time at the airport to get all of your documentation checked. --- Section Separator --- If you try to enter New Zealand by travelling from NSW through another Australian state: You will immediately be placed in a managed isolation facility and will undergo regular COVID-19 testing. You will be charged for your stay in the managed isolation facility. MIQ costs (external link) You may be fined up to $1,000. Follow our managed return flight plan, and follow all health and travel advice to ensure you are not charged. --- Section Separator --- If you are unable to return to New Zealand at this time, you should continue to shelter in place and follow all local advice. If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia if the situation changes (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you are stranded in Australia and you need urgent consular assistance, call the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) emergency consular line at +64 99 20 20 20 from overseas or 0800 30 10 30 in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on self-isolating and testing. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) A section 70 order underscores the importance of you following the advice. If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. If you have recently returned to New Zealand, make sure you check the locations of interest in Australia often. You should do this because more are added every day. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia New South Wales (NSW) Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Niue --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is also available from the Cook Islands and Australia to New Zealand. However, this does not mean there is a "travel bubble" between New Zealand, Niue, Australia and the Cook Islands. If you want to travel from Niue to the Cook Islands by transiting through New Zealand, you will have to stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can travel onwards to the Cook Islands, and you have to be eligible to travel there. You could travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you’re in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is also available from the Cook Islands and Australia to New Zealand. However, this does not mean there is a "travel bubble" between New Zealand, Niue, Australia and the Cook Islands. If you want to travel from Niue to the Cook Islands by transiting through New Zealand, you will have to stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can travel onwards to the Cook Islands, and you have to be eligible to travel there. You could travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia New South Wales (NSW) Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand while quarantine-free travel is suspended (except for NSW). --- Section Separator --- Sign up if you would like email notifications about travel with Australia. Sign up now (external link) --- Section Separator --- 3pm 3 August 2021: We added information for people who have recently arrived from Queensland. If you have recently arrived from Queensland --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is for people in ACT , Norfolk Island , Northern Territory , Queensland , South Australia , Tasmania , Victoria and Western Australia . This page is not for people in New South Wales ( NSW ). Travel information for NSW --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from all Australian states and territories is suspended from 24 July 2021. If you are in Australia (except for in NSW), you cannot travel back to New Zealand until red flights start. This means you will also need a book a spot in managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ). We will update this page when red flights become available. The suspension of quarantine-free travel will continue for at least 8 weeks and will be reviewed in September. --- Section Separator --- If you are in Australia and were not able to return home before 30 July, we encourage you to: Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia if the situation changes (external link) (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular assistance cannot help you book a commercial flight, or guarantee an airline's travel requirements. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If you normally live in Australia and you are currently in New Zealand, you can travel home to Australia without having to quarantine on arrival. Your options for travel from New Zealand may be limited as airlines reduce the number of flights available. We recommend you contact your airline to confirm your booking. The New Zealand Government has upgraded its travel advice for everyone in New Zealand to “do not travel to Australia”, unless you usually live in Australia and you are returning home. If you need to travel to Australia, check the requirements you must meet with the Australian Government. If you want to return to New Zealand, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand and you will have to book a space in MIQ. Currently, there are no spaces in MIQ available. New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have recently arrived from Victoria on a green flight or you transited through Victoria after 11:59pm on 23 July, you must: self-isolate immediately at your home after you return to New Zealand — you can travel to get home continue to isolate for at least 3 days and get a COVID-19 test at day 3 isolate until you have a negative result. Follow the Ministry of Health guidelines for self-isolation (external link) You can call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on where to get tested, or you can go to your local testing centre. We recommend you wear a face covering when going to get a COVID-19 test. Search for a testing location near you (external link) These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) (external link) (external link) A section 70 order underscores the importance of you following the advice. The Ministry of Health will contact you on day 1 and day 3 to check your health and wellbeing and to make sure you have had a day 3 test. You do not need to self-isolate if you have arrived from ACT, Norfolk Island, Northern Territory, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania and Western Australia — unless you transited Victoria. You can self-isolate at a friend or family member’s home. The people you stay with do not need to self-isolate. However, we recommend they should: try to keep 2 metres apart from you as much as possible not invite visitors over minimise the time they spend in shared spaces such as the kitchen or living room. The people you live with should continue to monitor their health for COVID-19 symptoms. If someone you live with develops COVID-19 symptoms they should: call Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test stay at home until they get a negative result, and for 24 hours after their symptoms have stopped. --- Section Separator --- If you have travelled from Queensland since Monday 26 July, we strongly encourage you to check the locations of interest on the Queensland government website. Even if you have not visited any, keep checking as more are added every day. We are asking you to do this because Queensland has entered a lockdown. If you visited a location of interest at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on self-isolating and testing. Locations of interest in Queensland (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you arrive back in New Zealand, there are some things you need to do to make sure you keep your whānau, friends and community safe from COVID-19.