111 is currently experiencing a significant increase in calls. If you need COVID-19 health advice, please call Healthline anytime on 0800 358 5453. Keep our ambulances free by only calling 111 for medical emergencies. What you need to know Report a RAT Prepare to isolate How to get a test Order a rapid antigen tests About the Novavax vaccine Household Contacts COVID-19 symptoms Latest case numbers Get your booster Life at Red --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home About our COVID-19 response About Unite against COVID-19 Unite against COVID-19 has evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. It is evolving to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey — based on the concept of “He waka eke noa — we are all in this together”. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. --- Section Separator --- Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Over the past year we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so that we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our new sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our elements. --- Section Separator --- Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū. The taonga pūoro you now hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand’s sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. --- Section Separator --- Our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped us shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but, together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail.
Home About our COVID-19 response History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 225 KB] First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. --- Section Separator --- Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 225 KB] --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel.
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could: consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response, and provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could: consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response, and provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. --- Section Separator --- Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member --- Section Separator --- Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases --- Section Separator --- The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. --- Section Separator --- Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups Community Panel --- Section Separator --- The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. Sarah Sparks, Chair Anthony Taueki, Member Dr Api Talemaitoga, Member Dr Aram Kim, Member Callum Woodhouse, Member Jordon Milroy, Member Dr Margaret Brown, Member Michelle Mascoll, Member Dr Hafsa Ahmed, Member The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. --- Section Separator --- The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. --- Section Separator --- Sarah Sparks, Chair Anthony Taueki, Member Dr Api Talemaitoga, Member Dr Aram Kim, Member Callum Woodhouse, Member Jordon Milroy, Member Dr Margaret Brown, Member Michelle Mascoll, Member Dr Hafsa Ahmed, Member --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. --- Section Separator --- Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework summary table [PDF, 69 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework detailed table [PDF, 225 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework summary table [PDF, 69 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework detailed table [PDF, 225 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department for the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health Border Executive Board --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework --- Section Separator --- Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand legislation website | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand legislation website | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Border --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Education --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Health response --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Housing --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Income support measures --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Independent advisory groups --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Offshore issues --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Research --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Reviews and audits --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] (external link) Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] (external link) Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] (external link) Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] (external link) Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] --- Section Separator --- View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Economy --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Contact us | business.govt.nz We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home COVID-19 vaccines Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. You might be interested in The Big Boost About the Novavax vaccine How children and young people can get vaccinated My Covid Record Side effects International travel vaccination certificates Support and information for disabled people --- Section Separator --- Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 March 2022 at 1:00 pm You can find more vaccination data on our data and statistics page. Data and statistics COVID (external link) (external link) 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- Boosters and Omicron — Your questions answered Dr Ashley Bloomfield — Get your vaccine booster Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Vaccination is your pass to unlock summer. Find where's close to get your dose below — you can just walk in or drive through. Get 1 now. Get another in 3 weeks. --- Section Separator --- You do not have to wait to get your COVID-19 vaccination. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. How to get your COVID-19 vaccination We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. You can learn from the experts and get answers to your questions. COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered --- Section Separator --- Summer's a great time to hang out with friends and whānau. So it's important to support the people you love to be vaccinated. Talk to them about why you got vaccinated. There are some good pointers on how to have a positive conversation on this site. Help them find information from trusted sources, or give them practical support — offer them a lift to the vaccination centre, or buy them a coffee afterwards. How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in getting back to the gigs, events, concerts and festivals we love. If you want to get back to 'live', and attend an event this summer, you'll need to be vaccinated. #VaxForLive Facebook (external link) #VaxForLive Instagram (external link) --- Section Separator --- From Friday 3 December, when Aotearoa moves to the traffic light system, you may need a vaccine pass to enter venues and events — like cafes and concerts. How to get My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Karawhiua website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination status certificates Find out how to get COVID-19 vaccination status certificates for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how you will be able to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination status when travelling overseas. Find out about using the website My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, My Vaccine Pass, and International Travel Vaccination Certificates. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how you will be able to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination status when travelling overseas. Find out about using the website My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, My Vaccine Pass, and International Travel Vaccination Certificates.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination status certificates International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- International Travel Vaccination Certificates are now available for tamariki (children) aged between 5 and 11 years old. Find out how to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate for your tamariki Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. The details included on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. If you need to change your details to match your passport, instructions on how to do this will be available. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. Some countries may have different requirements. Before travelling, please check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. You will also need to follow all the usual immigration processes for the country you wish to enter. Additional steps, such as having a negative pre-departure test, may also be required. View a larger image of International Travel Vaccination Certificate example [PNG, 1.3 MB] Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. International Travel Vaccination Certificates only show vaccines given in New Zealand. If you received 1 or more doses of a COVID-19 vaccine overseas, you should also request a certificate from that country to travel outside of New Zealand. If you received both your doses overseas, you cannot get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate from New Zealand. There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate: online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a pharmacy. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘International Travel Vaccination Certificate.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the certificate is for and their NHI number. 6. You should get an email with the certificate within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). If you have already received a vaccination confirmation letter you can still use this for international travel, but we recommend you request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate through My Covid Record to ensure the country you are travelling to recognises your proof of vaccination status. Vaccination confirmation letters and Privacy Act requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- International Travel Vaccination Certificates are now available for tamariki (children) aged between 5 and 11 years old. Find out how to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate for your tamariki --- Section Separator --- Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. The details included on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. If you need to change your details to match your passport, instructions on how to do this will be available. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. Some countries may have different requirements. Before travelling, please check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. You will also need to follow all the usual immigration processes for the country you wish to enter. Additional steps, such as having a negative pre-departure test, may also be required. View a larger image of International Travel Vaccination Certificate example [PNG, 1.3 MB] Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. International Travel Vaccination Certificates only show vaccines given in New Zealand. If you received 1 or more doses of a COVID-19 vaccine overseas, you should also request a certificate from that country to travel outside of New Zealand. If you received both your doses overseas, you cannot get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate from New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate: online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a pharmacy. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘International Travel Vaccination Certificate.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the certificate is for and their NHI number. 6. You should get an email with the certificate within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- If you have already received a vaccination confirmation letter you can still use this for international travel, but we recommend you request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate through My Covid Record to ensure the country you are travelling to recognises your proof of vaccination status. Vaccination confirmation letters and Privacy Act requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination status certificates How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. If you were vaccinated in New Zealand, you can request your vaccine pass through My Covid Record now. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. How to get My Vaccine Pass For international use, the details included on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. International Travel Vaccination Certificates only show vaccines given in New Zealand. How to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate My Covid Record allows you to check your vaccination record is up to date. The information in My Covid Record comes from the data stored in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. You can now see recent COVID-19 test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days, including the type of test and the date of the result. If a test comes back positive, there will be a delay of 72 hours before it shows up in your My Covid Record account. This allows time for a health professional to contact you about your test result and provide advice. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate COVID-19 vaccine: Exemptions and certificates | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. --- Section Separator --- If you were vaccinated in New Zealand, you can request your vaccine pass through My Covid Record now. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. How to get My Vaccine Pass For international use, the details included on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. International Travel Vaccination Certificates only show vaccines given in New Zealand. How to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- My Covid Record allows you to check your vaccination record is up to date. The information in My Covid Record comes from the data stored in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). --- Section Separator --- Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- You can now see recent COVID-19 test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days, including the type of test and the date of the result. If a test comes back positive, there will be a delay of 72 hours before it shows up in your My Covid Record account. This allows time for a health professional to contact you about your test result and provide advice. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate COVID-19 vaccine: Exemptions and certificates | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination status certificates My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues that require proof of your vaccination status. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card, vaccination confirmation letter or exemption card as proof of your vaccination status. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: have had 2 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand —  this can include a combination, for example, one dose of Pfizer and one dose of Novavax, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. Boosters are not currently required to get a My Vaccine Pass. Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). These could include: events hospitality close-proximity businesses, such as hairdressers and gyms sport faith-based gatherings. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: supermarkets pharmacies health and disability services petrol stations public transport — for example, buses, trains and commuter ferries schools and early learning service providers housing and housing support services. Learn about the traffic lights My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass: online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a participating vaccination site. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘My Vaccine Pass.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: For Apple, click 'Add to Apple Wallet' For Android, click 'Save to phone' Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. Android screenshot instructions (external link) iPhone screenshot instructions (external link) If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues. Save your pass to your iPhone Save your pass to your Android phone Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick — this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected — for example, that you have been verified — remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. You cannot use the NZ Pass Verifier app to scan International Travel Vaccination Certificates. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier — Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] My Vaccine Pass is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues requiring proof of vaccination status. All My Vaccine Passes should be visually checked to allow access. A reasonable number should also be scanned using the NZ Pass Verifier app to allow access. You may also check details by requesting ID (for example, driver licence). If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health-issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick — the same as all passes. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) Find advice on checking My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues that require proof of your vaccination status. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card, vaccination confirmation letter or exemption card as proof of your vaccination status. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: have had 2 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand —  this can include a combination, for example, one dose of Pfizer and one dose of Novavax, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. Boosters are not currently required to get a My Vaccine Pass. Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). These could include: events hospitality close-proximity businesses, such as hairdressers and gyms sport faith-based gatherings. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: supermarkets pharmacies health and disability services petrol stations public transport — for example, buses, trains and commuter ferries schools and early learning service providers housing and housing support services. Learn about the traffic lights My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass: online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a participating vaccination site. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘My Vaccine Pass.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: For Apple, click 'Add to Apple Wallet' For Android, click 'Save to phone' Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. Android screenshot instructions (external link) iPhone screenshot instructions (external link) If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues. --- Section Separator --- Save your pass to your iPhone Save your pass to your Android phone --- Section Separator --- Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick — this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected — for example, that you have been verified — remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. You cannot use the NZ Pass Verifier app to scan International Travel Vaccination Certificates. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier — Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues requiring proof of vaccination status. All My Vaccine Passes should be visually checked to allow access. A reasonable number should also be scanned using the NZ Pass Verifier app to allow access. You may also check details by requesting ID (for example, driver licence). If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health-issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick — the same as all passes. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) Find advice on checking My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunising tamariki Dr Pete Watson — How immunising tamariki helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. We recommend the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed – for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. It is up to the parent or caregiver to decide when a child gets their first vaccination. If you choose to wait until after they turn 12, they will get the adult vaccine for both doses. If they get their first dose when they are 11, they will get the children's version for both doses — even if they get their second dose after they turn 12. A responsible adult needs to accompany the child to their appointment(s). This can be a parent, an adult family member, trusted family friend, legal power of attorney, or whanaungatanga carer. Consent for vaccination needs to be given by a legal guardian of the child. If the adult who accompanies the child to the appointment is not the child’s legal guardian: the vaccinator will need to verbally confirm by phone with a legal guardian that they consent to the child being vaccinated, or the responsible adult can bring a signed copy of the COVID-19 vaccination consent form completed by a guardian. This is standard consenting process. COVID-19 vaccination consent form [PDF, 227 KB] --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Dr Lily Fraser — effects of COVID-19 on tamariki Dr Jin Russell — How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5-11 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Dr Teuila Percival — Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book or find a vaccination centre Call 0800 28 29 26 to make a booking --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any question or worries, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The COVID Vaccination Healthline team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Why do I need a booster? Can I get Novavax? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does the vaccine work against Omicron? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone aged 18 and over who has been fully vaccinated for at least 3 months to get a free booster now. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on Omicron and boosters 4 reasons to get tamariki vaccinated against COVID-19 NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and nearly 1.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- What to expect if you have a needle phobia How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.
Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, traffic light settings, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face masks to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? --- Section Separator --- Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? --- Section Separator --- Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. --- Section Separator --- The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. We are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face mask in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly. Watch episode 8 (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people aged 18 and older receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Pregnant women should discuss the timing of their booster with their midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people aged 18 and older receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Pregnant women should discuss the timing of their booster with their midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. --- Section Separator --- You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. --- Section Separator --- AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Reschedule’. To choose a different vaccination centre, click ‘Change your location’. Choose a new date and time for your appointment. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Cancel booking’. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Reschedule’. To choose a different vaccination centre, click ‘Change your location’. Choose a new date and time for your appointment. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Cancel booking’. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. What you need to know How children and young people can get vaccinated Getting a booster Getting your second dose Change your appointment --- Section Separator --- From Monday 14 March, Novavax will be available at limited locations to anyone aged 18 years and over, who has not been fully vaccinated and wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. You can book your Novavax dose online through BookMyVaccine (external link) (external link) or by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . The Novavax vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 3 weeks before getting your second dose. Novavax is not currently available as a booster dose. If you have had 2 doses of the Novavax vaccine as your primary course of vaccination, you can get a My Vaccine Pass. About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a different vaccine as your first dose, you will need a prescription to get Novavax as your second dose. You can get a prescription at the vaccinating Novavax clinic or before your appointment with your preferred doctor. It is free to visit the doctor for a Novavax prescription. We recommend you wait at least 28 days to get Novavax as your second dose . --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where AstraZeneca is available. Not all sites will have it, as Pfizer is the main vaccine we are using in New Zealand. You must be aged 18 or over to get AstraZeneca. Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where Novavax is available. It will be available at limited locations from Monday 14 March 2022. If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. Find your NHI --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Note: Not all sites stock the Pfizer vaccine for children aged 5 to 11, so please check before you go. --- Section Separator --- Children aged 5 to 11 can get a COVID-19 vaccine from 17 January 2022. Find sites near you that are offering vaccinations for 5 to 11-year-olds --- Section Separator --- Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination and children Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding Support and information for disabled people
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your COVID-19 vaccination How children and young people can get vaccinated There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki and rangatahi. Book now or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive the Pfizer vaccine, with tamariki aged 5 to 11 getting a child (paediatric) dose. People under 18 years old are not eligible for a booster dose or the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change an appointment using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) It will take around 5 minutes to book. Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. How to find an NHI number --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds straight away. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] Learn about vaccination for children and young people COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a booster 3 months (93 days) after their second dose. Getting your booster will give you and your whānau greater protection from COVID-19, including Omicron. The latest advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group recommends shortening the interval to 3 months. By reducing the interval, an additional 1 million New Zealanders are eligible to receive their booster before the end of summer. This means more people — especially Māori — will be able to receive a booster before Omicron reaches its peak. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). We are encouraging everyone aged 18 and over who has been fully vaccinated for at least 3 months to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 18 years and older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you have tested positive for COVID-19 but you still need a booster dose, we recommend you wait at least 3 months after you have recovered to get your booster. The best timing for the booster dose may be different for everyone. We recommend you speak to your doctor or Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you get your booster. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is now available 3 months after the second dose, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription at the vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic or before your appointment with your preferred doctor. It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects You do not need to get a booster to be eligible for a My Vaccine Pass or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your My Vaccine Pass will remain valid, even if you do not get a booster dose. At this stage, all My Vaccine Passes expire six months from date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster shot. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a booster 3 months (93 days) after their second dose. Getting your booster will give you and your whānau greater protection from COVID-19, including Omicron. The latest advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group recommends shortening the interval to 3 months. By reducing the interval, an additional 1 million New Zealanders are eligible to receive their booster before the end of summer. This means more people — especially Māori — will be able to receive a booster before Omicron reaches its peak. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). --- Section Separator --- We are encouraging everyone aged 18 and over who has been fully vaccinated for at least 3 months to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 18 years and older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you have tested positive for COVID-19 but you still need a booster dose, we recommend you wait at least 3 months after you have recovered to get your booster. The best timing for the booster dose may be different for everyone. We recommend you speak to your doctor or Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you get your booster. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is now available 3 months after the second dose, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription at the vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic or before your appointment with your preferred doctor. It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a booster to be eligible for a My Vaccine Pass or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your My Vaccine Pass will remain valid, even if you do not get a booster dose. At this stage, all My Vaccine Passes expire six months from date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster shot. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster The Big Boost The Big Boost Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster The Big Boost If you are 18 years and over, and you had your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, get your booster today. --- Section Separator --- With Omicron in the community, getting a COVID-19 booster is the best thing you can do to protect you and your whānau. If everyone who can get boosted, does, we will help slow the spread of the virus and ensure more of us stay well.  That means those of us who need hospital care will be able to get it. If you are 18 and over, and it’s 3 months since your second vaccination, you can get your booster now. --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 Find a walk-in or drive through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- Get behind the Big Boost – download posters, flyers, videos, email signatures, and key messages. Big Boost logo [PNG, 103 KB] I'm boosted email signature [PNG, 52 KB] I'm backing the fight against Omicron email signature [JPG, 107 KB] Big Boost key messages [PDF, 199 KB] Big Boost information for businesses [PDF, 147 KB]
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your second dose --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . The Novavax vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 3 weeks before getting your second dose. Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose Boosters Side effects --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . The Novavax vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 3 weeks before getting your second dose. --- Section Separator --- Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. --- Section Separator --- Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose --- Section Separator --- Boosters Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- These sectors and business types are where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory. Border and managed isolation and quarantine workers Education sector Health and disability sector Prison workers NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to workers on-site at tertiary education premises when Red settings are in place. This may be because they work with populations that: are unable to be vaccinated are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are at-risk of outbreaks. Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered COVID-19 booster vaccinations are now mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This came into effect on 23 January 2022. A change to the Vaccinations Order came into force on 14 February 2022. The amendment to the Order for health and disability workers to be boosted now sets the new deadline date to 25 February 2022. Border and MIQ workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022. This includes workers in Defence and Police who work in these settings. Health and Disability workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 25 February 2022. This includes workers in Corrections, Fire and Emergency, Defence, Education and Police who work in these settings. Affected educational services, Corrections (custodial staff), Police (non-sworn employees who work in educational settings), if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 1 March 2022. This currently does not include workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. A booster dose is mandated 6 months (183 days) from the end of your primary vaccination course. However, you are eligible for a vaccine booster 3 months after the completion of your primary vaccine course. It is recommended you take the opportunity for an earlier dose, rather than wait the full 6 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Workers covered by the mandate in New Zealand need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, you are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose to be fully vaccinated. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Temporary significant service disruption exemptions for the health and disability sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for employees and employers on COVID-19 vaccination requirements in the workplace is available from Employment New Zealand. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) If a business or workplace is not covered by a government mandate for COVID-19 vaccination, they can choose to do a risk assessment to see if work needs to be done by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds. The vaccination assessment tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It is optional to use and does not replace any risk assessments that have already been done. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. More information about NZ Pass Verifier app COVID-10 vaccine posters, videos and flyers COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These sectors and business types are where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory. Border and managed isolation and quarantine workers Education sector Health and disability sector Prison workers NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to workers on-site at tertiary education premises when Red settings are in place. This may be because they work with populations that: are unable to be vaccinated are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are at-risk of outbreaks. Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered COVID-19 booster vaccinations are now mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This came into effect on 23 January 2022. A change to the Vaccinations Order came into force on 14 February 2022. The amendment to the Order for health and disability workers to be boosted now sets the new deadline date to 25 February 2022. Border and MIQ workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022. This includes workers in Defence and Police who work in these settings. Health and Disability workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 25 February 2022. This includes workers in Corrections, Fire and Emergency, Defence, Education and Police who work in these settings. Affected educational services, Corrections (custodial staff), Police (non-sworn employees who work in educational settings), if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 1 March 2022. This currently does not include workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. A booster dose is mandated 6 months (183 days) from the end of your primary vaccination course. However, you are eligible for a vaccine booster 3 months after the completion of your primary vaccine course. It is recommended you take the opportunity for an earlier dose, rather than wait the full 6 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Workers covered by the mandate in New Zealand need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, you are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose to be fully vaccinated. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. --- Section Separator --- Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Temporary significant service disruption exemptions for the health and disability sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for employees and employers on COVID-19 vaccination requirements in the workplace is available from Employment New Zealand. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) If a business or workplace is not covered by a government mandate for COVID-19 vaccination, they can choose to do a risk assessment to see if work needs to be done by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds. The vaccination assessment tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It is optional to use and does not replace any risk assessments that have already been done. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. More information about NZ Pass Verifier app --- Section Separator --- COVID-10 vaccine posters, videos and flyers COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Border worker vaccinations Border worker vaccinations Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination status certificates 2 shots for summer
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Border worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September 2021, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. On 23 January 2022, booster doses for border workers, if eligible, became mandatory. Workers are required to have their booster by 15 February 2022. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). If they have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, they are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If they have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, they will need to have a second dose within 35 days of starting work to be fully vaccinated. They can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as their second dose. New workers must now have their first dose before starting work and their second within 35 days of their start date. This applies to government and private business employees. Border workers, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February. Otherwise, a booster dose is required within 6 months following the primary course of vaccination. You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. International evidence shows that booster doses provide good protection against Omicron, and by achieving high levels of booster protection we will be able to reduce the spread and severity of Omicron. Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September 2021, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. On 23 January 2022, booster doses for border workers, if eligible, became mandatory. Workers are required to have their booster by 15 February 2022. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). If they have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, they are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If they have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, they will need to have a second dose within 35 days of starting work to be fully vaccinated. They can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as their second dose. --- Section Separator --- New workers must now have their first dose before starting work and their second within 35 days of their start date. This applies to government and private business employees. Border workers, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February. Otherwise, a booster dose is required within 6 months following the primary course of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. International evidence shows that booster doses provide good protection against Omicron, and by achieving high levels of booster protection we will be able to reduce the spread and severity of Omicron. --- Section Separator --- Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . --- Section Separator --- The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Border worker vaccinations
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home International travel Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. From 11:59pm on 4 March 2022 destination-specific travel advisory levels have been reinstated for New Zealanders travelling overseas. Check the SafeTravel website for travel advisories for your destination. Travel advice | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government urges any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with the Cook Islands and some other Pacific Islands. Travel with the Cook Islands Travel with some Pacific Islands Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing for international travel is not covered under the public health response, therefore it is not available for free from community testing centres, pharmacies or GPs. Some pharmacies and GPs may offer supervised tests for retail sale for international travel using their own privately procured supply of rapid antigen tests (RATs). There are also some private clinics where travellers can pay for a pre-departure RAT or PCR test. You can check which providers do pre-departure tests on the Healthpoint website. COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) Whatever type of test you take: it needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your destination country you may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. remember to take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm on 4 March 2022 destination-specific travel advisory levels have been reinstated for New Zealanders travelling overseas. Check the SafeTravel website for travel advisories for your destination. Travel advice | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government urges any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with the Cook Islands and some other Pacific Islands. Travel with the Cook Islands Travel with some Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing for international travel is not covered under the public health response, therefore it is not available for free from community testing centres, pharmacies or GPs. Some pharmacies and GPs may offer supervised tests for retail sale for international travel using their own privately procured supply of rapid antigen tests (RATs). There are also some private clinics where travellers can pay for a pre-departure RAT or PCR test. You can check which providers do pre-departure tests on the Healthpoint website. COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) Whatever type of test you take: it needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your destination country you may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. remember to take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Border reopened to vaccinated New Zealanders from Australia at 11.59pm 27 February 2022 Reopens to New Zealanders in the rest of the world on 4 March 2022 MIQ removed for most travellers in phased reconnection, replaced by self-testing after they arrive MIQ to remain for the unvaccinated Five-step plan prioritises returning New Zealanders and brings forward the reopening of key visa categories to address worker shortages. Further visa categories reopen throughout the year to help accelerate economic recovery When New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- Maintaining our minimisation and protection strategy to stamp out the virus and keep our options open. Ensuring every eligible New Zealander is offered the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Reducing the need for further lockdowns as much as possible by continuing to strengthen our health and contact tracing systems. Maintaining strong public health tools. Developing new ways to enable people to travel safely to and from New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours.  The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 260 KB] Sign in to My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traveller health declaration system will collect information from travellers arriving in New Zealand. In future, New Zealand will assess the health risk of each traveller depending on their vaccination status, test results and where they have travelled. This information will be used to help facilitate the traveller on arrival to New Zealand, for example whether they need to go into a MIQ facility, or be eligible for other isolation options and testing requirements. In order to confirm people’s vaccination status, this system will be able to validate the vaccination certificate and show it is authentic and can be trusted. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the traveller health declaration system needs means it will be developed in stages with security and simplicity for users being key to the solution. The first version will be available in Quarter1 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service will admin ister the project. --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Panel experts included Sir David Skegg, Sir Brian Roche, Dr Maia Brewerton, Dr Api Talemaitoga, Mr Rob Fyfe, Professor Michael Baker, and Dr Ashley Bloomfield. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021.
Home International travel Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB] The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. --- Section Separator --- You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 --- Section Separator --- We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. --- Section Separator --- The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. --- Section Separator --- Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB] --- Section Separator --- The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Entry to New Zealand is controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. What you need to know Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transiting New Zealand Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Over 2022, New Zealand's borders are reopening in 5 steps to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Everyone travelling to New Zealand must be eligible to enter. Check your eligibility at Immigration NZ. Travellers who meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand do not have to go into managed isolation and quarantine. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test result to enter New Zealand. Find out about our pre-departure requirements. Fully vaccinated and eligible travellers must do 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. Find out about testing when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Travellers who are fully vaccinated with approved vaccines for New Zealand must take 2 rapid antigen tests after they arrive. Travellers who do not meet vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand without managed isolation and quarantine must go in to MIQ. Travellers from some Pacific Islands can enter New Zealand without having to enter MIQ. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand Find out what you can do when you arrive: enter managed isolation and quarantine, arrive quarantine-free, or take rapid antigen tests. --- Section Separator --- Travellers who are fully vaccinated with approved vaccines for New Zealand must take 2 rapid antigen tests after they arrive. Travellers who do not meet vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand without managed isolation and quarantine must go in to MIQ. Travellers from some Pacific Islands can enter New Zealand without having to enter MIQ.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ --- Section Separator --- Travellers need to enter MIQ if they: are unvaccinated have a vaccine exemption do not have proof of vaccination or have not had a complete course of 10 approved vaccines or a complete course of any other government-approved vaccines and a dose Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Moderna administered before arriving in New Zealand. This includes New Zealand citizens. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand From 3 March 2022, the virtual lobby for booking MIQ rooms has been replaced with a self-service system. Travellers can log into the booking system at any time, select their travel dates, see if MIQ rooms are available, and secure a voucher for their preferred date. Any vouchers not confirmed within 48 hours of booking will immediately be released back into the system. The lobby system was introduced when demand for MIQ rooms was significantly higher than supply. Now that demand for rooms is significantly less, the virtual lobby is no longer needed. Managed isolation and quarantine | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand citizens and permanent residents can travel to New Zealand. If you are not a citizen or permanent resident, check if you can travel. You may need to apply for a visa. If you are not sure you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) (external link) You must secure your place in MIQ. Book your voucher for MIQ before you book your flight. After you have booked your flight, you need to go back to the MIQ booking site within 48 hours to confirm your voucher. How to get your voucher for MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) Once you have your voucher for MIQ: Book and pay for a flight with an arrival day that matches your MIQ voucher. Confirm your voucher through the MIQ booking system within 48 hours. Confirm your voucher through the Managed Isolation Allocation System | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access hospitality venues, tourism sites, events and other locations. If you were vaccinated in another country, you must have received 1 of 10 approved vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass. You will need to add your vaccination record to New Zealand’s COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). Approved vaccines for My Vaccine Pass (external link) (external link) How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) (external link) (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. (external link) Get your My Vaccine Pass It may take some time to get your My Vaccine Pass. If you have been vaccinated with one of the approved vaccines, it is a good idea to begin the process before you depart for New Zealand. Most travellers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, and if you are entering managed isolation (MIQ). Pre-departure test requirements You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa MIQ voucher ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will verify your travel history, negative pre-departure test result, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. After going through Customs, you will be taken to your MIQ facility. Everything you need to know about being in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) When you have completed your stay, you will leave the facility and enter the community. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there are cases of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Download NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This approach to COVID-19 introduces more freedoms for people with My Vaccine Pass. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- Travellers need to enter MIQ if they: are unvaccinated have a vaccine exemption do not have proof of vaccination or have not had a complete course of 10 approved vaccines or a complete course of any other government-approved vaccines and a dose Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Moderna administered before arriving in New Zealand. This includes New Zealand citizens. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- From 3 March 2022, the virtual lobby for booking MIQ rooms has been replaced with a self-service system. Travellers can log into the booking system at any time, select their travel dates, see if MIQ rooms are available, and secure a voucher for their preferred date. Any vouchers not confirmed within 48 hours of booking will immediately be released back into the system. The lobby system was introduced when demand for MIQ rooms was significantly higher than supply. Now that demand for rooms is significantly less, the virtual lobby is no longer needed. Managed isolation and quarantine | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens and permanent residents can travel to New Zealand. If you are not a citizen or permanent resident, check if you can travel. You may need to apply for a visa. If you are not sure you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must secure your place in MIQ. Book your voucher for MIQ before you book your flight. After you have booked your flight, you need to go back to the MIQ booking site within 48 hours to confirm your voucher. How to get your voucher for MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have your voucher for MIQ: Book and pay for a flight with an arrival day that matches your MIQ voucher. Confirm your voucher through the MIQ booking system within 48 hours. Confirm your voucher through the Managed Isolation Allocation System | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access hospitality venues, tourism sites, events and other locations. If you were vaccinated in another country, you must have received 1 of 10 approved vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass. You will need to add your vaccination record to New Zealand’s COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). Approved vaccines for My Vaccine Pass (external link) (external link) How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) (external link) (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. (external link) Get your My Vaccine Pass It may take some time to get your My Vaccine Pass. If you have been vaccinated with one of the approved vaccines, it is a good idea to begin the process before you depart for New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, and if you are entering managed isolation (MIQ). Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa MIQ voucher ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. --- Section Separator --- Customs will verify your travel history, negative pre-departure test result, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. After going through Customs, you will be taken to your MIQ facility. Everything you need to know about being in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) When you have completed your stay, you will leave the facility and enter the community. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there are cases of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Download NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This approach to COVID-19 introduces more freedoms for people with My Vaccine Pass. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival --- Section Separator --- New Zealand borders are reopening in steps. Your vaccination status, and what Steps in Reconnecting New Zealand we are at will determine if you can enter New Zealand without going into managed isolation and quarantine when you arrive. Check out when New Zealand borders open Fully vaccinated New Zealand citizens and residents (and other eligible travellers) can travel to New Zealand without needing to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) You must be fully vaccinated with an approved vaccine. This also applies to New Zealand citizens. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can enter New Zealand without managed isolation and quarantine if they are travelling alone or with parents or guardians who meet the vaccination requirements for entry without MIQ. Make sure you have evidence of your vaccination status. Check the vaccination requirements My Vaccine Pass is proof for entry to most events and many businesses, like hospitality.  It is not needed for basic services such as supermarkets, petrol stations and health services. If you need a My Vaccine Pass and you have had your COVID-19 vaccination overseas, you can apply to the Ministry of Health using the overseas vaccine submission form. Not all COVID-19 vaccines will make you eligible for a My Vaccine Pass, so there may be additional vaccination requirements. Apply for My Vaccine Pass through the overseas vaccine submission form | covid19.health.nz (external link) It may take 2 weeks to process My Vaccine Pass if you were vaccinated outside New Zealand. If you have been vaccinated with 1 of the approved vaccines, it is a good idea to begin the process before you depart for New Zealand. All travellers must complete the traveller declaration (Nau Mai Rā) before travelling to New Zealand, unless you are entering managed isolation and quarantine. You will be asked to provide evidence that you have completed the declaration when you check-in at the airport, and by Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be either electronic or paper format. Complete your travel declaration (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. You can choose one of the following: A PCR/RT-PCR test — your swab must be taken and your results returned no more than 48 hours before the first international leg of your journey to New Zealand. A supervised rapid antigen tes t (RAT) — your swab must be taken and your results returned no more than 24 hours before your journey. A supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test — your swab must be taken and your results returned no more than 24 hours before your journey. Some people do not need to get a pre-departure test. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will verify your travel history, negative pre-departure test result, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there are cases of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Download NZ COVID Tracer Aotearoa New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This approach to COVID-19 introduces more freedoms for people with My Vaccine Pass. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- New Zealand borders are reopening in steps. Your vaccination status, and what Steps in Reconnecting New Zealand we are at will determine if you can enter New Zealand without going into managed isolation and quarantine when you arrive. Check out when New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- Fully vaccinated New Zealand citizens and residents (and other eligible travellers) can travel to New Zealand without needing to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must be fully vaccinated with an approved vaccine. This also applies to New Zealand citizens. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can enter New Zealand without managed isolation and quarantine if they are travelling alone or with parents or guardians who meet the vaccination requirements for entry without MIQ. Make sure you have evidence of your vaccination status. Check the vaccination requirements --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is proof for entry to most events and many businesses, like hospitality.  It is not needed for basic services such as supermarkets, petrol stations and health services. If you need a My Vaccine Pass and you have had your COVID-19 vaccination overseas, you can apply to the Ministry of Health using the overseas vaccine submission form. Not all COVID-19 vaccines will make you eligible for a My Vaccine Pass, so there may be additional vaccination requirements. Apply for My Vaccine Pass through the overseas vaccine submission form | covid19.health.nz (external link) It may take 2 weeks to process My Vaccine Pass if you were vaccinated outside New Zealand. If you have been vaccinated with 1 of the approved vaccines, it is a good idea to begin the process before you depart for New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration (Nau Mai Rā) before travelling to New Zealand, unless you are entering managed isolation and quarantine. You will be asked to provide evidence that you have completed the declaration when you check-in at the airport, and by Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be either electronic or paper format. Complete your travel declaration (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. You can choose one of the following: A PCR/RT-PCR test — your swab must be taken and your results returned no more than 48 hours before the first international leg of your journey to New Zealand. A supervised rapid antigen tes t (RAT) — your swab must be taken and your results returned no more than 24 hours before your journey. A supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test — your swab must be taken and your results returned no more than 24 hours before your journey. Some people do not need to get a pre-departure test. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements --- Section Separator --- You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. --- Section Separator --- Customs will verify your travel history, negative pre-departure test result, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there are cases of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Download NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This approach to COVID-19 introduces more freedoms for people with My Vaccine Pass. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel means you do not have to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) when you arrive. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand if you meet immigration requirements, and are travelling from: American Samoa Cook Islands Nauru Niue Samoa Tokelau Tuvalu, or Vanuatu. New Zealand citizens and permanent residents can travel to New Zealand. If you are not a citizen or permanent resident, check if you can travel. You may need to apply for a visa. If you are not sure you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: You are in a quarantine-free travel country | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) (external link) If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must provide proof of an approved vaccination to enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you are a New Zealand citizen, you do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. However, some airlines will require it. Check with your airline. Make sure you have evidence, if you need it. Vaccination requirements for travelling quarantine-free My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access hospitality venues, tourism sites, events and other locations. If you were vaccinated in another country, you must have received 1 of 10 approved vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass. You will need to add your vaccination record to New Zealand’s COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). Approved vaccines for My Vaccine Pass (external link) How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. Get your My Vaccine Pass (external link) It may take some time to get your My Vaccine Pass. If you have been vaccinated with one of the approved vaccines, it is a good idea to begin the process before you depart for New Zealand. All travellers must complete the traveller declaration (Nau Mai Rā) before travelling to New Zealand, unless you are entering managed isolation and quarantine. You will be asked to provide evidence that you have completed the declaration when you check-in at the airport, and by Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be either electronic or paper format. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration proof of your vaccination status. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will verify your travel history, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Once you have gone through Customs, passport control and the health check, you can collect your bags and safely enter the community. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there are cases of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Download NZ COVID Tracer app Aotearoa New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This approach to COVID-19 introduces more freedoms for people with My Vaccine Pass. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel means you do not have to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) when you arrive. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand if you meet immigration requirements, and are travelling from: American Samoa Cook Islands Nauru Niue Samoa Tokelau Tuvalu, or Vanuatu. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens and permanent residents can travel to New Zealand. If you are not a citizen or permanent resident, check if you can travel. You may need to apply for a visa. If you are not sure you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: You are in a quarantine-free travel country | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must provide proof of an approved vaccination to enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you are a New Zealand citizen, you do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. However, some airlines will require it. Check with your airline. Make sure you have evidence, if you need it. Vaccination requirements for travelling quarantine-free --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access hospitality venues, tourism sites, events and other locations. If you were vaccinated in another country, you must have received 1 of 10 approved vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass. You will need to add your vaccination record to New Zealand’s COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). Approved vaccines for My Vaccine Pass (external link) How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. Get your My Vaccine Pass (external link) It may take some time to get your My Vaccine Pass. If you have been vaccinated with one of the approved vaccines, it is a good idea to begin the process before you depart for New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration (Nau Mai Rā) before travelling to New Zealand, unless you are entering managed isolation and quarantine. You will be asked to provide evidence that you have completed the declaration when you check-in at the airport, and by Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be either electronic or paper format. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration proof of your vaccination status. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. --- Section Separator --- Customs will verify your travel history, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Once you have gone through Customs, passport control and the health check, you can collect your bags and safely enter the community. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there are cases of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Download NZ COVID Tracer app Aotearoa New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This approach to COVID-19 introduces more freedoms for people with My Vaccine Pass. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are entering MIQ When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers entering New Zealand from 28 February 2022 must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 result from one of these tests: a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, and if you are entering managed isolation (MIQ). You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. Medical certificates If you are required to provide a medical certificate because you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will also need to get this 48 hours before your flight. You will need to present this as part of your check-in documentation. --- Section Separator --- You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane or be asked to get a further test before you are allowed to board your flight. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests confirm a negative result and contain written confirmation of the following information for travel clearance: Information about the traveller traveller’s full name traveller’s date of birth or passport number. Information about the COVID-19 test the type of test (PCR, RAT or LAMP) date and time the test was conducted (please note that PCR tests must be taken no more than 48 hours prior to departure, RAT or LAMP tests must be taken no more than 24 hours prior to departure) the test result - confirming that it was negative. Information about the testing lab or supervising health professional If you had a PCR test: the name of the testing lab If you had a RAT or LAMP: the name of supervising health professional. the supervisor’s letterhead; or a stamp that confirms the supervisor’s name, occupation, and employer. Evidence may be in paper or digital form. Evidence must be in English or accompanied by a certified translation into English. --- Section Separator --- Some travellers are exempt from pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm on Wednesday 2 March 2022, fully vaccinated and eligible travellers entering New Zealand will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Check the vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements to travel to New Zealand You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health after you complete your traveller declaration. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line and leave a message with your result. Call: 0800 432 010 If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. Find out what to expect when you get a PCR test, and what you need to do after your test. How to get a COVID-19 test Find out what to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes how to self-isolate. What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 If you return a negative RAT, you must report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm on Wednesday 2 March 2022, fully vaccinated and eligible travellers entering New Zealand will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Check the vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health after you complete your traveller declaration. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line and leave a message with your result. Call: 0800 432 010 --- Section Separator --- If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. Find out what to expect when you get a PCR test, and what you need to do after your test. How to get a COVID-19 test Find out what to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes how to self-isolate. What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you return a negative RAT, you must report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen. However, New Zealanders who do not have proof of vaccination must enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a medical practitioner are a refugee are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated. You do not need to apply for an exemption. The following people need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand: non-New Zealand citizens non-New Zealand citizens who are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. Your vaccination status, where you are travelling from, and what Steps of Reconnecting New Zealand have commenced will determine if you must enter MIQ when you arrive. When New Zealand's borders will reopen | Reconnecting New Zealand You can apply for an exemption if you cannot be vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand due to being in a country with no, or limited, vaccination access for the past 6 months. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. Your vaccination status, and what Steps in Reconnecting New Zealand have commenced will determine if you must enter managed isolation and quarantine when you arrive. When New Zealand's borders open | Reconnecting New Zealand There are 3 ways you can meet the vaccination requirements for entry to New Zealand without MIQ. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. 1. A complete course of any combination of the following Medsafe or WHO approved vaccines: 2. Or, a complete course of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen, administered before arriving in New Zealand . 3. Or, a single dose of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen, administered before arriving in New Zealand . Travellers from anywhere in the world who do not meet the vaccination requirements for entry to New Zealand without MIQ, must go into managed isolation and quarantine. This includes New Zealand citizens. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand for MIQ. There are 33 vaccines that are approved. Note: a shorter list of vaccines are approved for proof of your vaccination status when you are in New Zealand. You must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can enter New Zealand without MIQ if they are travelling alone or with parents or guardians who meet the vaccination requirements for entry without MIQ. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen. However, New Zealanders who do not have proof of vaccination must enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a medical practitioner are a refugee are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated. You do not need to apply for an exemption. --- Section Separator --- The following people need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand: non-New Zealand citizens non-New Zealand citizens who are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. Your vaccination status, where you are travelling from, and what Steps of Reconnecting New Zealand have commenced will determine if you must enter MIQ when you arrive. When New Zealand's borders will reopen | Reconnecting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an exemption if you cannot be vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand due to being in a country with no, or limited, vaccination access for the past 6 months. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Your vaccination status, and what Steps in Reconnecting New Zealand have commenced will determine if you must enter managed isolation and quarantine when you arrive. When New Zealand's borders open | Reconnecting New Zealand There are 3 ways you can meet the vaccination requirements for entry to New Zealand without MIQ. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. 1. A complete course of any combination of the following Medsafe or WHO approved vaccines: --- Section Separator --- 2. Or, a complete course of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen, administered before arriving in New Zealand . 3. Or, a single dose of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen, administered before arriving in New Zealand . --- Section Separator --- Travellers from anywhere in the world who do not meet the vaccination requirements for entry to New Zealand without MIQ, must go into managed isolation and quarantine. This includes New Zealand citizens. --- Section Separator --- Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand for MIQ. There are 33 vaccines that are approved. Note: a shorter list of vaccines are approved for proof of your vaccination status when you are in New Zealand. You must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can enter New Zealand without MIQ if they are travelling alone or with parents or guardians who meet the vaccination requirements for entry without MIQ. --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm on Wednesday 2 March 2022, as the New Zealand border reopens in steps, fully vaccinated travellers entering New Zealand will no longer need to self-isolate. The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from Australia and are no longer required to self-isolate upon arrival, after 11:59pm Wednesday 2 March 2022: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. Unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, people with vaccine exemptions or medical certificates, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). If you travelled to Australia from another country (excluding New Zealand), you must spend 14 days in Australia before you travel to New Zealand. Who is eligible to travel to NZ under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test From 11:59pm 4 March 2022, the following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and do not need to self-isolate or enter MIQ: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival From 11:59pm 13 March 2022, the following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and do not need to self-isolate or enter MIQ: Skilled workers earning at least 1.5x the median wage may be eligible to be granted an ‘other critical worker’ border exception. Travellers on a working holiday scheme. At both parts of Step 2, unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). Who is eligible to travel to NZ under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world : Current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return. Up to 5,000 international students for semester 2. Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand: All travellers from Australia. Visitors from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors). Visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa. From July, travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories. Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test All visa categories will reopen from October 2022, including visitor and student visas. You must meet some health requirements, including: You must provide a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test: Get a pre-departure test You must meet vaccination requirements, including having your last dose at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. Check vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand You must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm on Wednesday 2 March 2022, as the New Zealand border reopens in steps, fully vaccinated travellers entering New Zealand will no longer need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from Australia and are no longer required to self-isolate upon arrival, after 11:59pm Wednesday 2 March 2022: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. Unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, people with vaccine exemptions or medical certificates, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). If you travelled to Australia from another country (excluding New Zealand), you must spend 14 days in Australia before you travel to New Zealand. Who is eligible to travel to NZ under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm 4 March 2022, the following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and do not need to self-isolate or enter MIQ: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival From 11:59pm 13 March 2022, the following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and do not need to self-isolate or enter MIQ: Skilled workers earning at least 1.5x the median wage may be eligible to be granted an ‘other critical worker’ border exception. Travellers on a working holiday scheme. At both parts of Step 2, unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). Who is eligible to travel to NZ under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world : Current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return. Up to 5,000 international students for semester 2. Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand: All travellers from Australia. Visitors from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors). Visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa. From July, travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories. Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Get a COVID-19 pre-departure test --- Section Separator --- All visa categories will reopen from October 2022, including visitor and student visas. --- Section Separator --- You must meet some health requirements, including: You must provide a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test: Get a pre-departure test You must meet vaccination requirements, including having your last dose at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. Check vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand You must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's border is opening in steps. If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. This includes people who begin their journey in New Zealand to travel to Australia, and then return to New Zealand — no matter how long you are in Australia for. You need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You also need one if you are entering managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). Plan when to get your test and results as they must be within 48 hours (for a PCR test) or 24 hours (for a supervised RAT or LAMP test). If you are making a short visit to Australia, this may mean you have to get a test soon after you arrive in Australia. If your pre-departure test documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your flight to New Zealand. Check pre-departure testing requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- All travellers, including New Zealand citizens, must complete the traveller declaration (Nau Mai Rā) before travelling to New Zealand, unless you are entering managed isolation and quarantine. You will be asked to provide evidence that you have completed the declaration when you check-in at the airport, and by Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be either electronic or paper format. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Travellers who are eligible to travel to New Zealand and are fully vaccinated with approved vaccines must take 2 rapid antigen tests after they arrive in New Zealand. This includes New Zealand citizens. How to travel to New Zealand when you are self-testing after arrival Travellers who are eligible to travel to New Zealand and do not meet vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand must enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). This includes New Zealand citizens. How to travel to New Zealand when you are entering MIQ --- Section Separator --- From 21 February 2022, all visa holders who are fully vaccinated for international travel purposes can travel to Australia without a travel exemption. Unvaccinated visa holders will still need to be in an exempt category or hold an individual travel exemption to enter Australia. Preparing to travel to Australia from overseas | covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au (external link)
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. --- Section Separator --- Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from some Pacific Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ). You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from some Pacific Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ). You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility.
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel, and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in the Cook Islands. What to do before you travel, what happens while you are travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel, and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in the Cook Islands. What to do before you travel, what happens while you are travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand.
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you want to travel to Aitutaki or another island after you arrive in Rarotonga, check what you need to do: Frequently asked questions about travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. There are some exceptions to these criteria for Cook Islanders, Cook Islands permanent residents, children of Cook Islands permanent residents and holders of valid Cook Islands issued immigration permits (other than visitor permits). Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you want to travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-flight as a visitor, you must meet the following criteria: You must be fully vaccinated. You can travel 14 days after you have completed your primary course — for most people, this is 2 doses. You do not need to have had a booster dose. At this stage, only people aged 5 and over can travel to the Cook Islands. You must have evidence you are vaccinated. Make sure you get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from My Covid Record — you cannot use your My Vaccine Pass for international travel: International Travel Vaccination Certificate If you cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons, apply for an exemption by emailing tmo.exemptions@cookislands.gov.ck You must have evidence of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result. You must have had your test done and received your results no more than 48 hours before you depart. Your test must be conducted by a Ministry of Health accredited laboratory (external link) Your evidence can be an electronic or paper copy, but a text message will not be accepted. Your evidence must have: your name your date of birth or passport number the date and time the test was conducted the name of the laboratory that carried out the test the type of test carried out, and the test result. You must spend the full 10 days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. This means you can travel from day 11 onwards. You must complete the Cook Islands travel declaration no more than 96 hours before you depart New Zealand. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete New Zealand's Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you return. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) New Zealand passport holders can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for up to 90 days, as long as they have 7 days validity remaining on their passports beyond their intended stay. Australian passport holders can stay for up to 31 days, with 7 days validity remaining. Everyone else can stay for up to 31 days, with 6 months validity remaining on their passports. New Zealand passport holders can travel one-way — everyone else must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. It is your responsibility to make sure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Frequently asked questions about entry requirements for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example, hayfever), make sure you bring a medical certificate as evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook Islands. You should be aware that you may need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Your health may be assessed when you arrive. Keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Wash and sanitise your hands often. Cover your coughs and sneezes. Stay home or in your accommodation if you feel unwell. Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. Download the CookSafe+ app and turn on Bluetooth tracing to keep track of the people you have been near. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan if your travel is disrupted. You will need to meet any costs, and government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Get travel insurance, and check your policy will cover you for COVID-19-related disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation when you return, and you may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, check you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands. If border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — you may need to apply for a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register your travel plans at SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can send you important travel information to help keep you safe and provide updates about emergencies. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you are overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. If you are travelling back to New Zealand, you must: meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you want to travel to Aitutaki or another island after you arrive in Rarotonga, check what you need to do: Frequently asked questions about travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. --- Section Separator --- There are some exceptions to these criteria for Cook Islanders, Cook Islands permanent residents, children of Cook Islands permanent residents and holders of valid Cook Islands issued immigration permits (other than visitor permits). Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-flight as a visitor, you must meet the following criteria: You must be fully vaccinated. You can travel 14 days after you have completed your primary course — for most people, this is 2 doses. You do not need to have had a booster dose. At this stage, only people aged 5 and over can travel to the Cook Islands. You must have evidence you are vaccinated. Make sure you get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from My Covid Record — you cannot use your My Vaccine Pass for international travel: International Travel Vaccination Certificate If you cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons, apply for an exemption by emailing tmo.exemptions@cookislands.gov.ck You must have evidence of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result. You must have had your test done and received your results no more than 48 hours before you depart. Your test must be conducted by a Ministry of Health accredited laboratory (external link) Your evidence can be an electronic or paper copy, but a text message will not be accepted. Your evidence must have: your name your date of birth or passport number the date and time the test was conducted the name of the laboratory that carried out the test the type of test carried out, and the test result. You must spend the full 10 days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. This means you can travel from day 11 onwards. You must complete the Cook Islands travel declaration no more than 96 hours before you depart New Zealand. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete New Zealand's Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you return. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) New Zealand passport holders can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for up to 90 days, as long as they have 7 days validity remaining on their passports beyond their intended stay. Australian passport holders can stay for up to 31 days, with 7 days validity remaining. Everyone else can stay for up to 31 days, with 6 months validity remaining on their passports. New Zealand passport holders can travel one-way — everyone else must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. It is your responsibility to make sure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Frequently asked questions about entry requirements for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example, hayfever), make sure you bring a medical certificate as evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook Islands. You should be aware that you may need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Your health may be assessed when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Wash and sanitise your hands often. Cover your coughs and sneezes. Stay home or in your accommodation if you feel unwell. Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. Download the CookSafe+ app and turn on Bluetooth tracing to keep track of the people you have been near. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan if your travel is disrupted. You will need to meet any costs, and government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Get travel insurance, and check your policy will cover you for COVID-19-related disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation when you return, and you may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, check you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands. If border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — you may need to apply for a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register your travel plans at SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can send you important travel information to help keep you safe and provide updates about emergencies. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you are overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, you must: meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: make sure you follow all health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You can travel through New Zealand to get home. Life at Red You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be fully vaccinated (see information below). You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face mask at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face mask in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: make sure you follow all health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You can travel through New Zealand to get home. Life at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be fully vaccinated (see information below). You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face mask at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face mask in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from some Pacific Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from: American Samoa Cook Islands Nauru Niue Samoa Tokelau Tuvalu Vanuatu. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from 8 Pacific Islands are: New Zealand citizens holders of a New Zealand resident visa holders of a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You must have been only in other quarantine-free travel Pacific countries or New Zealand in the 14 days before travel. This means you can transit another quarantine-free-travel country (such as Samoa) and enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you transit any other non-QFT country and go landside, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from your country. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: English [PDF, 1.3 MB] Gagana Samoa | Samoan [PDF, 468 KB] Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from some Pacific Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from: American Samoa Cook Islands Nauru Niue Samoa Tokelau Tuvalu Vanuatu. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from 8 Pacific Islands are: New Zealand citizens holders of a New Zealand resident visa holders of a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You must have been only in other quarantine-free travel Pacific countries or New Zealand in the 14 days before travel. This means you can transit another quarantine-free-travel country (such as Samoa) and enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you transit any other non-QFT country and go landside, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) If the travel declaration does not load on your desktop, Apple or Android device, try using a different browser or clearing the browser's cookies. Google Chrome is the recommended browser. If you do not receive a confirmation email within 15 minutes, check your junk/spam folder. If there is an error in the email address entered into the form, resubmit your declaration. To report any issues, email: customerservice@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from your country. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings --- Section Separator --- Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: English [PDF, 1.3 MB] Gagana Samoa | Samoan [PDF, 468 KB] Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Niue --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face mask at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face masks, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face mask at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face masks, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home Isolation and care There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know Financial support How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating Looking after your mental wellbeing If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Find out what to expect if you get COVID-19. This includes getting your results, contact tracing, what you need to do, and support you will get. If you get COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness. They will fully recover in their own home. Here is what you need to know about self-isolating at home. Most people with mild to moderate symptoms will be required to self-manage their illness at home, or in suitable alternative accommodation, with support from local healthcare providers. This will ensure those who need help the most will get it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID. --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness. They will fully recover in their own home. Here is what you need to know about self-isolating at home. Most people with mild to moderate symptoms will be required to self-manage their illness at home, or in suitable alternative accommodation, with support from local healthcare providers. This will ensure those who need help the most will get it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID.
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- After you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months, if someone else in your household tests positive during that time. The chance of reinfection during this period if you have had COVID-19 is low. You should not have a PCR test in the 3 months following recovery, as you will likely have a positive result. If you need a PCR test for any reason in this period, you can talk to your doctor about getting a medical exemption. Using RATs during this period should result in a negative test, as you should no longer be infectious. If you continue to feel unwell, talk to your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 4 weeks after recovery if you need your first, second (or third) dose to complete your primary course. You should wait 3 months after recovery if you need your booster. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- After you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months, if someone else in your household tests positive during that time. The chance of reinfection during this period if you have had COVID-19 is low. You should not have a PCR test in the 3 months following recovery, as you will likely have a positive result. If you need a PCR test for any reason in this period, you can talk to your doctor about getting a medical exemption. Using RATs during this period should result in a negative test, as you should no longer be infectious. If you continue to feel unwell, talk to your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 4 weeks after recovery if you need your first, second (or third) dose to complete your primary course. You should wait 3 months after recovery if you need your booster. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating How to self-manage COVID-19 Financial support
Home Isolation and care How to self-manage COVID-19 Aotearoa New Zealand is in Phase 3 of the response to Omicron. How we manage COVID-19 in the community has changed. Traffic light settings remain in place. --- Section Separator --- As we prepare for COVID-19 to be widespread in our community, we expect Omicron will put pressure on our health system. Our priority is to slow the spread and avoid a large surge in cases. This will help  protect our most vulnerable, ensure critical services can continue to operate and ease pressure on our health system. Most people with mild to moderate symptoms will be required to self-manage their illness at home, or in suitable alternative accommodation, with support from local healthcare providers. Health providers will make sure the right support is available to you and your whole whānau is prepared. Digital support tools will also be made available through the Health Hub. For the vast majority of us, there is no need to fear Omicron, but we need to take the virus seriously. It is important to keep following the rules for a while longer to ensure there are enough hospital beds for the more vulnerable. --- Section Separator --- Everyone, whether you are fully vaccinated or not, should prepare for what you need to do if you get COVID-19. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Prepare to self-isolate Download — Our COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 167 KB] --- Section Separator --- You should get a test if you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19. If you test positive, it is nothing to be embarrassed about. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. PCR tests will still be available for priority groups with rapid antigen tests more widely available. You can get a RAT at testing sites, doctors, or pharmacies. Many workplaces are registered to get RATs as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get a COVID-19 test Household Contacts Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you are positive for COVID-19 you will get a text message with a link to an online form you need to fill out. This form will provide information to your health team about any health needs you may have. Contact tracing will focus on high-risk exposures. People with COVID-19 will be able to notify their contacts. How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Only people who have COVID-19 and their household contacts will need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate If you have COVID-19 Download — we are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Help is available for people who are isolating with worsening Covid symptoms — please seek help for yourself or loved one in this situation. Community providers are well resourced to provide care in the community especially to vulnerable populations. Wraparound health and clinical care will focus on those with high needs. Please remember to save ambulances for emergencies. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating, it is important you and your household gets the right care and support to recover and get back to living a normal life. Many people will be able to look after themselves or have support from friends and whānau. However, some people may need things like food and groceries. The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) is coordinating support, and connecting people with the right service to help them. Help when you are self-isolating Financial support COVID-19 support Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support
Home Isolation and care Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: apply for benefits or other financial support ask them to help you find another job. You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The targeted COVID-19 Support Payment (CSP) is available for businesses struggling with revenue during the Omicron outbreak. The CSP is a payment to help support viable and ongoing businesses or organisations which have experienced a 40% or more drop in revenue due to COVID-19 circumstances. Who is eligible and how to apply for the COVID-19 Support Payment | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Isolation and care Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You can get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 , 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You can get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 , 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating How to self-manage COVID-19 Financial support
Home Isolation and care How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home for the whole time you are required to be there. It also means taking common-sense precautions to avoid any contact with those you live with. This advice applies to both people who are positive for COVID-19 and people who are contacts. Avoid contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself if you can and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do not prepare food for others. If people are leaving you meals, tell them to leave it at the door and only collect it once they have moved away from the area. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: Download — we are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and are able to fully recover in their own home. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will need to isolate for at least 7 days while you recover from COVID-19. Start counting your 7 days from day 0. Day 0 is the day that your symptoms started or the day that you got tested if you do not have any symptoms. You can isolate in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. If you have COVID-19, the COVID-19 Health Hub has more advice: I have tested positive for COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you have COVID-19 If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. A health professional will assess this case by case. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: self-isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or is notified as a probable case until they complete 7 days of isolation get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You can complete your isolation at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact of someone with COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19, but you do not live with them. You do not need to self-isolate. If you develop symptoms, get a test and stay home until a negative test result is returned. If you are a Close Contact, the COVID-19 Health Hub has more advice: I am a close contact of someone with COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) What Close Contacts need to do If you are a critical worker and a Household Contact, you will still be able to go to work providing you are fully vaccinated, do not have symptoms and have a negative rapid antigen test  (RAT) before going to work. Your employer will let you know if this applies to you. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolating guidance. Critical workers You will need to pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Help while self-isolating Financial support COVID-19 support After you have recovered from COVID-19 and completed you isolation, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home for the whole time you are required to be there. It also means taking common-sense precautions to avoid any contact with those you live with. This advice applies to both people who are positive for COVID-19 and people who are contacts. Avoid contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself if you can and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do not prepare food for others. If people are leaving you meals, tell them to leave it at the door and only collect it once they have moved away from the area. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: Download — we are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and are able to fully recover in their own home. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will need to isolate for at least 7 days while you recover from COVID-19. Start counting your 7 days from day 0. Day 0 is the day that your symptoms started or the day that you got tested if you do not have any symptoms. You can isolate in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. If you have COVID-19, the COVID-19 Health Hub has more advice: I have tested positive for COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you have COVID-19 If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. A health professional will assess this case by case. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: self-isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or is notified as a probable case until they complete 7 days of isolation get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You can complete your isolation at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact of someone with COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19, but you do not live with them. You do not need to self-isolate. If you develop symptoms, get a test and stay home until a negative test result is returned. If you are a Close Contact, the COVID-19 Health Hub has more advice: I am a close contact of someone with COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) What Close Contacts need to do --- Section Separator --- If you are a critical worker and a Household Contact, you will still be able to go to work providing you are fully vaccinated, do not have symptoms and have a negative rapid antigen test  (RAT) before going to work. Your employer will let you know if this applies to you. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolating guidance. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- You will need to pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Help while self-isolating Financial support COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- After you have recovered from COVID-19 and completed you isolation, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating How to self-manage COVID-19 Financial support
What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health will send you a text message from 2328 confirming your positive test result. The text will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If you had a rapid antigen test (RAT), you will get a text message after you have reported your results through My Covid Record or by phone. This can take up to 24 hours. How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation reduces the risks of spreading the virus to others. You will need to isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Your 7 days start from Day 0 — the day your symptoms started or the day you got tested. You do not need a test to leave isolation. If you do, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. If you are still sick, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. What you need to know when you are self-isolating Your Household Contacts will also need to self-isolate. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, is highly infectious. You are protecting your health and theirs by telling them as soon as possible. You need to tell the people you live with, your workplace or school and other close contacts Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using the 6-digit access code you received in the text message from 2328. For most people, it will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and have not completed the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Complete the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19, especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted, are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to self-manage. If you need any advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you call. This can include if you or someone you care for has: severe shortness of breath or difficulty breathing severe chest pain or discomfort difficulty waking up or is very drowsy. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- If you are still sick, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. You should avoid any high-risk settings if you are still unwell. You may receive a text message but you do not need to wait for an official message or release to leave isolation. You do not need to be tested. If you were, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If their tests are positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months, if someone else in your household tests positive during that time. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period if you have had COVID-19 is low. If someone you live with tests positive during that 3 months, the other members of your household will need to isolate again. There are a few other things you should do: After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- People who test positive for COVID-19 and their Household Contacts must self-isolate. This page is for people who find out they must self-isolate when they are travelling. You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and what to do. Isolate at your accommodation if you are symptomatic, until you get your test result. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to remain in place, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- People who test positive for COVID-19 and their Household Contacts must self-isolate. This page is for people who find out they must self-isolate when they are travelling. --- Section Separator --- You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and what to do. Isolate at your accommodation if you are symptomatic, until you get your test result. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to remain in place, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Languages and resources Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. --- Section Separator --- Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources. --- Section Separator --- Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources.
Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: are blind, vision-impaired or have low vision cannot keep their eyes on the screen because they are doing something — for example, cooking want help keeping track of details in the story. Find out more about audio description (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Testing and tracing (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- We are working hard to ensure our key information is available in Braille. More .brf files will be available soon Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Life at Red [BRF, 11 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 11 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer Booster [BRF, 6 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- We are working hard to ensure our key information is available in Braille. More .brf files will be available soon --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Life at Red [BRF, 11 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 11 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- Everything you need to know about the Pfizer Booster [BRF, 6 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Support (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Contact tracing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Testing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 1.7 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.5 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 6.9 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.5 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 6.9 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 14 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 1.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [DOCX, 5.9 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [DOCX, 4.6 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [DOCX, 4.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [PDF, 1011 KB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 14 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 1.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [DOCX, 5.9 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [DOCX, 4.6 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [DOCX, 4.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [PDF, 1011 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Travel (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [DOCX, 5.4 MB] The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [PDF, 1.7 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [DOCX, 5.4 MB] The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- About the Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [DOCX, 115 KB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] About the Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [MP3, 9.1 MB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- About the Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [DOCX, 115 KB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] About the Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [MP3, 9.1 MB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Support (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 543 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 8.1 MB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 543 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 8.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Life at Red [DOCX, 551 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 544 KB] Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 21 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 12 MB] --- Section Separator --- Life at Red [DOCX, 551 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 544 KB] Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 21 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 12 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Travel (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] Re-opening New Zealand's borders [DOCX, 543 KB] Travellers to New Zealand — Isolation guide [DOCX, 541 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Re-opening New Zealand's borders [DOCX, 543 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travellers to New Zealand — Isolation guide [DOCX, 541 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Proving you are vaccinated (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Vaccinations for children (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Isolation and care (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Face masks (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Information about COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Available support --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Contact tracing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Testing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Traffic light settings (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Travel (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Posters Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. We have included a selection of posters here to help you get your business ready for the traffic light system. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free C OVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? [PNG, 907 KB] How to work out your days of self-isolation [PNG, 926 KB] Household Contacts — what you need to do [PNG, 903 KB] Testing positive at different times [PNG, 1 MB] Do you need a test to leave isolation? [PNG, 857 KB] Got any symptoms? [JPG, 489 KB] Test results [JPG, 527 KB] How to self-isolate [JPG, 605 KB] Need support? [JPG, 501 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [JPG, 539 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 167 KB] --- Section Separator --- Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] Verifying vaccine passes — please be patient [PDF, 1.5 MB] Vaccine pass required — Red settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] Vaccine pass required — Orange settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] No vaccine pass required — basic needs service [PDF, 1.5 MB] No vaccine pass required — Orange settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] No vaccine pass required — Red settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] Find out more about My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- How to check in safely [PDF, 1.4 MB] Record keeping slips [PDF, 394 KB] Record keeping box sticker [PDF, 73 KB] Record keeping box template — small [PDF, 51 KB] Record keeping box template — medium [PDF, 187 KB] Record keeping box template — large [PDF, 165 KB] --- Section Separator --- Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 176 KB] Kia ora — we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get a QR code poster for your home (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face mask safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face mask [PDF, 115 KB] How to sew your own face mask [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19? What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? Hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai When you should get a test Te noho taratahi i te kāinga Isolating at home Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Help while you are isolating Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere How to use a Rapid Antigen Test --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga | Help while you are isolating --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: kawenga o ngā kai ki a koe moni hei utu i ngā kōhukihuki, waiwai hoki, pēnei i te kai, te rongoā me ētahi pire. tautoko mai i ngā rōpū hapori, ngā rōpū ā-iwi me ngā rōpū o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa kei tō rohe. Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: tiro kei te pēhea koe tiro mēnā e hiahia ana koe i ētahi whakaratonga pēnei i te kai, te rongoā rānei. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Tērā hoki he tautoko ā-pūtea mā te hunga e tika ana kia noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Tautoko ā-pūtea Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: kawenga o ngā kai ki a koe moni hei utu i ngā kōhukihuki, waiwai hoki, pēnei i te kai, te rongoā me ētahi pire. tautoko mai i ngā rōpū hapori, ngā rōpū ā-iwi me ngā rōpū o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa kei tō rohe. Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: tiro kei te pēhea koe tiro mēnā e hiahia ana koe i ētahi whakaratonga pēnei i te kai, te rongoā rānei. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Tērā hoki he tautoko ā-pūtea mā te hunga e tika ana kia noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Tautoko ā-pūtea Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te noho taratahi i te kāinga | Isolating at home --- Section Separator --- Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga koe mēnā: kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 (tangata whaipānga tata i te kāinga). Ka taea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho tōtika rānei. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 7 rā i te iti rawa i a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Me tīmata ki te kaute i ngā rā e 7 mai i te rā kore (0). Ko te rā 0 koinā te rā i pā mai ai ō tohumate, i kitea rānei kei te pāngia koe e te mate (mēnā kāore ō tohumate). Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te katoa o te wā i whakaritea kia noho koe ki reira, hāunga mō ētahi pūtake whāiti kia wehe koe. Ā, me tūpato koe kia kore ai e pātata ki te hunga e noho tahi ai koe. Ngā tohutohu mō te noho taratahi: Me noho ki te kāinga, i tō wāhi noho rānei, kaua tētahi atu ki roto i tō rūma, ā, mēnā ka taea me whiwhi i tōu ake rūma kaukau. Me korikori tinana i te kāinga, i tō māra rānei mēnā ka taea, i waho rānei i tō takiwā noho kia tawhiti mai i ētahi atu. Kāore koe e āhei ana ki te korikori tinana i ngā whakanōhanga mō te katoa, pērā i tētahi hōpua kaukau. Kia iti te whaipānga ki ētahi atu e noho tahi ai koe. Mēnā kāore e taea, me 1.5 mita tō noho wehe, ā, me mau ārai kanohi kia kapi ai tō ihu me tō waha ina tata mai ētahi atu. Kaua tuari mea me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kaua e tukuna he manuhiri ki roto i tō kāinga. Me horoi, me patuero haere ngā papa e tino pāpātia ana. Huakina ngā matapihi kia nui ake te rere o te hau i roto. Me tono ngā hoa, te whānau rānei ki te waiho i ngā kai, ngā ōta rongoā, ngā mea waiwai ki tō kūaha, me tono kia kawea mai rānei ngā kawenga. Mēnā kāore i te haumaru mōu kia noho taratahi i te kāinga, ka taea pea he wāhi noho atu anō mōu. Ka taea e koe tēnei te tono mā te puka tuihono. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me wawe tonu tō noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia ia e te mate (i te rā rānei i pā mai ngā tohumate, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei). Me noho koe ki te kāinga i a koe e noho taratahi ana, engari ehara i te mea me karo koe i ētahi atu o tō whare engari ia mēnā pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia ina eke te tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe ki te rā 3 me te rā 7 o tōna mate. Ka āhei koe ki te whakamutu i tō noho taratahi i te rā tonu ka mutu te tangata tuatahi i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā ka whakaatu tō whakamātautau kāore koe i te mate i te rā 7, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino ake rānei. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia anō tētahi o tō kāinga e te mate, ka āhei tonu ērā atu o te whare te whakamutu tā rātau noho taratahi ina mutu taua tangata tuatahi, engari me kore katoa ōna tohumate, kua kitea rānei kua kore kē e pāngia e te mate. Engari, ki te pāngia ētahi o te kāinga e te mate, me tīmata anō tā rātau noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe engari kāore koe i te noho tahi me te tangata kua pāngia e te mate, kāore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate, me mātua whakaritea he whakamātautau. I te mea he mea nui ngā ratonga hira mō ngā hiahia taketake o te tangata, he whakarato hanganga hira, he wāhanga hoki/rānei o ngā mekameka ratonga hira, ka taea e ā rātau kaimahi te toro i te Kaupapa Aweretanga Mō te Tāngata Whaipānga Tata. Ko ngā kaimahi kua werohia, kāore i te mate, kei ngā ratonga hira rēhita he whaipānga tata i te kāinga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 ka taea tonu te mahi, engari ia me whakaatu tō rātau whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kāore rātau i te mate i mua i te tīmatanga o te rā, wāhanga mahi rānei kei te mahi rātau i te wā noho taratahi, me te whai i ngā tikanga hauora tauwhāiti. Ka āhei anake rātau ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Ka taea e ēnei kaimahi te tiki ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mai i te wāhi hei tiki atu. Te whakamātautau me te hoki ki te mahi i te wā Omikona | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei tētahi pakihi, kaihokohoko takitahi rānei ki tētahi kaimahi he tangata whaipānga tata kei te wāhi mahi mēnā kāore ia i te pā ki ngā manuhiri, ā, me te noho ki te 'Rāhui Takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (me te haere atu me te hoki atu i te mahi). Me mātua whiwhi wero kano ārai mate te kaimahi, kāore ōna tohumate, ā, ka taea tonu te ū ki te 'rāhui takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (ahakoa kei roto, kei waho rānei). Ka āhei anake ia ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Rāhui Takitahi | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei ngā ratonga manaaki waiwai, pērā i ngā mahi o te wharepaku, te horoi me te kai, ki te haere tonu. Mēnā ka kitea he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga ki tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, me mātua whakamahi ngā kaitiaki i ngā tikanga horoi pai me te noho wehe i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea. Mēnā kaore e taea tēnei, me mātua mau utauta whakamaru tangata pērā i ngā karapu maka noa me ngā ārai kanohi. Ngā kōrero mā ngā kaimahi tautoko (external link) Mēnā ka pā mai ki a koe, ki tētahi atu rānei e tiakina ana e koe ngā tohumate kino me wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko ngā tohumate kino pea: he uaua te hēhē he takarangi, ka warea e te moe, he uaua rānei te oho ake kua kikorangi haere te waha, he kōmā me te makariri rānei he tino mamae te uma. Mēnā he kino ake tō mate, ā, me uru ki te hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i tō hoki ki te kāinga me te whai anō i ō mahi noa. Ka tirotirohia tēnei e ai ki te āhuatanga e tētahi mātanga hauora. Kāore he utu hauora mō te KOWHEORI-19. He maha ngā tāngata ka taea e rātau te noho taratahi i te kāinga me ngā āwhina mai i ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he āwhina kei reira mēnā kei te hiahia koe. Ngā tautoko mā ngā āwhina me ngā tāngata takitahi Ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi | business.govt.nz (external link) He tautoko atu anō mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei te noho taratahi rānei --- Section Separator --- Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga koe mēnā: kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 (tangata whaipānga tata i te kāinga). Ka taea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho tōtika rānei. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 7 rā i te iti rawa i a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Me tīmata ki te kaute i ngā rā e 7 mai i te rā kore (0). Ko te rā 0 koinā te rā i pā mai ai ō tohumate, i kitea rānei kei te pāngia koe e te mate (mēnā kāore ō tohumate). Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te katoa o te wā i whakaritea kia noho koe ki reira, hāunga mō ētahi pūtake whāiti kia wehe koe. Ā, me tūpato koe kia kore ai e pātata ki te hunga e noho tahi ai koe. Ngā tohutohu mō te noho taratahi: Me noho ki te kāinga, i tō wāhi noho rānei, kaua tētahi atu ki roto i tō rūma, ā, mēnā ka taea me whiwhi i tōu ake rūma kaukau. Me korikori tinana i te kāinga, i tō māra rānei mēnā ka taea, i waho rānei i tō takiwā noho kia tawhiti mai i ētahi atu. Kāore koe e āhei ana ki te korikori tinana i ngā whakanōhanga mō te katoa, pērā i tētahi hōpua kaukau. Kia iti te whaipānga ki ētahi atu e noho tahi ai koe. Mēnā kāore e taea, me 1.5 mita tō noho wehe, ā, me mau ārai kanohi kia kapi ai tō ihu me tō waha ina tata mai ētahi atu. Kaua tuari mea me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kaua e tukuna he manuhiri ki roto i tō kāinga. Me horoi, me patuero haere ngā papa e tino pāpātia ana. Huakina ngā matapihi kia nui ake te rere o te hau i roto. Me tono ngā hoa, te whānau rānei ki te waiho i ngā kai, ngā ōta rongoā, ngā mea waiwai ki tō kūaha, me tono kia kawea mai rānei ngā kawenga. Mēnā kāore i te haumaru mōu kia noho taratahi i te kāinga, ka taea pea he wāhi noho atu anō mōu. Ka taea e koe tēnei te tono mā te puka tuihono. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me wawe tonu tō noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia ia e te mate (i te rā rānei i pā mai ngā tohumate, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei). Me noho koe ki te kāinga i a koe e noho taratahi ana, engari ehara i te mea me karo koe i ētahi atu o tō whare engari ia mēnā pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia ina eke te tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe ki te rā 3 me te rā 7 o tōna mate. Ka āhei koe ki te whakamutu i tō noho taratahi i te rā tonu ka mutu te tangata tuatahi i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā ka whakaatu tō whakamātautau kāore koe i te mate i te rā 7, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino ake rānei. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia anō tētahi o tō kāinga e te mate, ka āhei tonu ērā atu o te whare te whakamutu tā rātau noho taratahi ina mutu taua tangata tuatahi, engari me kore katoa ōna tohumate, kua kitea rānei kua kore kē e pāngia e te mate. Engari, ki te pāngia ētahi o te kāinga e te mate, me tīmata anō tā rātau noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe engari kāore koe i te noho tahi me te tangata kua pāngia e te mate, kāore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate, me mātua whakaritea he whakamātautau. I te mea he mea nui ngā ratonga hira mō ngā hiahia taketake o te tangata, he whakarato hanganga hira, he wāhanga hoki/rānei o ngā mekameka ratonga hira, ka taea e ā rātau kaimahi te toro i te Kaupapa Aweretanga Mō te Tāngata Whaipānga Tata. Ko ngā kaimahi kua werohia, kāore i te mate, kei ngā ratonga hira rēhita he whaipānga tata i te kāinga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 ka taea tonu te mahi, engari ia me whakaatu tō rātau whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kāore rātau i te mate i mua i te tīmatanga o te rā, wāhanga mahi rānei kei te mahi rātau i te wā noho taratahi, me te whai i ngā tikanga hauora tauwhāiti. Ka āhei anake rātau ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Ka taea e ēnei kaimahi te tiki ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mai i te wāhi hei tiki atu. Te whakamātautau me te hoki ki te mahi i te wā Omikona | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei tētahi pakihi, kaihokohoko takitahi rānei ki tētahi kaimahi he tangata whaipānga tata kei te wāhi mahi mēnā kāore ia i te pā ki ngā manuhiri, ā, me te noho ki te 'Rāhui Takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (me te haere atu me te hoki atu i te mahi). Me mātua whiwhi wero kano ārai mate te kaimahi, kāore ōna tohumate, ā, ka taea tonu te ū ki te 'rāhui takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (ahakoa kei roto, kei waho rānei). Ka āhei anake ia ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Rāhui Takitahi | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei ngā ratonga manaaki waiwai, pērā i ngā mahi o te wharepaku, te horoi me te kai, ki te haere tonu. Mēnā ka kitea he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga ki tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, me mātua whakamahi ngā kaitiaki i ngā tikanga horoi pai me te noho wehe i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea. Mēnā kaore e taea tēnei, me mātua mau utauta whakamaru tangata pērā i ngā karapu maka noa me ngā ārai kanohi. Ngā kōrero mā ngā kaimahi tautoko (external link) Mēnā ka pā mai ki a koe, ki tētahi atu rānei e tiakina ana e koe ngā tohumate kino me wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko ngā tohumate kino pea: he uaua te hēhē he takarangi, ka warea e te moe, he uaua rānei te oho ake kua kikorangi haere te waha, he kōmā me te makariri rānei he tino mamae te uma. Mēnā he kino ake tō mate, ā, me uru ki te hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i tō hoki ki te kāinga me te whai anō i ō mahi noa. Ka tirotirohia tēnei e ai ki te āhuatanga e tētahi mātanga hauora. Kāore he utu hauora mō te KOWHEORI-19. He maha ngā tāngata ka taea e rātau te noho taratahi i te kāinga me ngā āwhina mai i ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he āwhina kei reira mēnā kei te hiahia koe. Ngā tautoko mā ngā āwhina me ngā tāngata takitahi Ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi | business.govt.nz (external link) He tautoko atu anō mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei te noho taratahi rānei --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Te mau ārai kanohi | Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakahau ana mātau i a koe kia mau ārai kanohi koe ina wehe koe i te kāinga. Ko te ārai kanohi me mau ki te māhunga mā ngā here e huri ana i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Arā, tē taea ngā kāmeta, tākai, tī-hāte rānei te whakamahi. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. I te Whero me mātua mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga waka rererangi i te motu i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga tēkehi me ngā waka tuari waka haere i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi tūmatanui/whakaurunga (kaua ngā hōpua kaukau) i ngā kēmihi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā wāhi ratonga hauora i ngā whakanōhanga tiaki kaumātua i rō kura, hei tauira i tētahi akomanga me ngā whakaminenga. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 me ngā kaimahi i rō whakanōhanga mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i tētahi pakihi kai me te inu, ngā pakihi e pātata ai te tangata (hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā toa whakaatahua), ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō ārai kanohi ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana. E tino whakahautia ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ētahi atu wāhi katoa ka haere koe. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakahau ana mātau i a koe kia mau ārai kanohi koe ina wehe koe i te kāinga. Ko te ārai kanohi me mau ki te māhunga mā ngā here e huri ana i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Arā, tē taea ngā kāmeta, tākai, tī-hāte rānei te whakamahi. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. I te Whero me mātua mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga waka rererangi i te motu i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga tēkehi me ngā waka tuari waka haere i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi tūmatanui/whakaurunga (kaua ngā hōpua kaukau) i ngā kēmihi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā wāhi ratonga hauora i ngā whakanōhanga tiaki kaumātua i rō kura, hei tauira i tētahi akomanga me ngā whakaminenga. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 me ngā kaimahi i rō whakanōhanga mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i tētahi pakihi kai me te inu, ngā pakihi e pātata ai te tangata (hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā toa whakaatahua), ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō ārai kanohi ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana. E tino whakahautia ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ētahi atu wāhi katoa ka haere koe. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? | Who does not need to wear a face covering? --- Section Separator --- E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) --- Section Separator --- E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. --- Section Separator --- Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 variants --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei. --- Section Separator --- Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 Kei te reri tō pakihi mō te KOWHEORI-19? | Is your business ready for COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Kei reira ētahi mahi māmā ka taea e ngā rangatira pakihi kia whāiti te hōrapa o te huaketo i waenga i ngā kaimahi, kiritaki me ētahi atu manuhiri. Me mātua whakarite kei te mārama koe, ā, ka whakatinanahia ngā whakaritenga mō tō pakihi i raro i te tikanga rama ikiiki. Rapu mōhio mō ngā rama ikiiki Whakamahia te utauta aromatawai werohanga kia mōhio ai mēnā me whakahaere pea ngā mahi i tō pakihi e te hunga kua werohia. Kei raro ētahi rāngai e ngā whakatau werohanga. Werohanga KOWHEORI-19 me te whai mahi | Employment NZ (external link) Ngā whakatau werohanga E paiherea ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te tiaki i ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu kua raru ā rātau mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu mōrea ki tō rātau hauora me tō rātau haumaru. Me mātua whakarite kei te tino haumaru rawa atu tō pakihi, wāhi mahi rānei: me whai i ngā whakaritenga ārai kanohi me matawai ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, tētahi atu momo whaiwhai i te pātanga me whai i ngā whakaritenga a My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) me mātua whakarite ka noho ngā tāngata katoa ki te kāinga mēnā kei te māuiui rātau, ā, ka waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi me wātea mai he wē patuero me ngā hua horoi me whakarite kei te pai te hauhau i te wāhi mahi Me takatū, me haumaru Te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te whakamātautau Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Whakahauhau | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Me whakarite mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI ki tō wāhi, ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu pakihi e mahi ana koe. Me mōhio koe he aha ō kawenga hei rangatira pakihi. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: te whakarite ka taea e ngā kaimahi te mahi mai i te kāinga ina tika ana te whakatinana i ngā rārangi mahi motuhake e rua – hei tauira, rōpū kikorangi me te whero (kia kaua e pā tahi ngā rōpū e rua tētahi ki tētahi) kia haere tonu ngā mahi me te whakarite mahere tuarua. Kua whakaputahia e Hīkina Whakatutuki tētahi aratohu (external link) hei āwhina te whakauru mai i ō kaimahi ki ngā kōrerorero me pēhea pea te whakarerekē i ngā tūranga, ngā kawenga me te āhua o te mahi ka pēhea pea tō whakahaere me ngā kaimahi tokoiti ake te mahi me ngā kaiwhakarato ohumahi wā poto mō te tūpono noa ka hiahia tautoko atu anō koe te hopu i ngā tukanga kia taea e ētahi atu kaimahi te mahi ngā mahi mēnā kāore e taea e tētahi te mahi kei a wai te kawenga, te mana rānei mō ngā tūmomo āhuatanga o tō pakihi? Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi. Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Mēnā he tuku ratonga koe, hua rānei ki ētahi atu pakihi, me whakapā atu pea koe ki ō kiritaki ka tuari i ō mahere. Mā te mārama ki ā rātau mahere ka āwhina anō pea i a koe kia takatū ai ki ngā rerekētanga o nga tono, ngā wā, me pēhea rānei te whakahāngai i te āhua o tō tuku i ō ratonga me ō hua kia rite ai ki ngā tikanga e mahi nei rātau. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: ka pēhea tō kōrero ki ngā kaimahi – kei te hou tonu ngā taipitopito whakapā a ngā kaimahi, ohotata hoki? ka pēhea tō tautoko i a rātau (hei tauira, te waewaea haere atu, te tuku tautoko atu anō mō ngā āhuatanga takitahi, aha atu, aha atu.)? ka pēhea tō whakamōhio atu ki ngā kiritaki, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mō tētahi whaipānga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 me mōhio rātau, mēnā rānei me huri koe i ō whakahaere nā te wāteatanga o ngā kaimahi? ka pēhea tō tiaki i te tūmataitinga o te tangata. Kaua rawa e tuaritia ngā ingoa me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā e whirinaki ana tō pakihi ki ngā hua, ngā ratonga rānei a ētahi atu pakihi, me kōrero koe ki a rātau mō ā rātau mahere mahi haere tonu, mahere tuarua hoki. Ka whai pānga pea ā rātau mahere ki āu ake. Ka hiahia pea koe ki te kōrero ki ngā kaiwhakarato: ka pēhea tā rātau whakarite i ngā hōnea o ngā kaimahi ka pēhea tā rātau tuku ratonga, rawa rānei mēnā he iti rawa ngā kaimahi? mēnā me whakaroa ake e koe ngā wā mō te whiwhi ōta, kia auau ake rānei te ōta? mēnā he kaimahi kei reira nō tētahi atu kaiwhakarato e tino whirinaki ana tō pakihi, ko wai te takawaenga tuarua? mēnā he iti rawa te kaha o tō kaiwhakarato, ko koe tonu tētahi o ngā kiritaki ka whakaratoa tonutia e rātau? Me whai whakaaro ki te hunga e whirinaki ana koe e mahi tahi nei tō pakihi me te whiriwhiri i ngā upane ka taea e koe me taua kaiwhakarato kia mau ai ngā ratonga e hiahiatia ana, ngā rawa rānei, ki te pāngia rātau e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whiwhi wero te tikanga pai rawa hei tiaki i ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga 18 tau, pakeke atu rānei e āhei ana ki tētahi potanga whakakaha mēnā kua eke te 3 marama mai i tā rātau whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu mōhio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi mō te werohanga | Employment New Zealand (external link) Kāore e kore ka pāngia tētahi tangata e mōhio ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Kei reira te pūnaha hauora manaaki i ngā wā katoa ki te tiaki i te hunga hiahia āwhina, engari ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e mate ki te uru ki te hōhipera, ā, ka pai noa iho te noho taratahi i te kāinga. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tāngata i ō rātau whare ki te kāinga, ā, kia kaua e pāpā ki ētahi atu, tae atu ki ō rātau hoa, whānau hoki. Me whakatenatena i te tangata ki te hanga mahere mā te whakamahi i tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū Mō te KOWHEORI-19. Me tikiake tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ka pā mai pea te ahotea i te whakahaere i ngā pānga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka hiahia tohutohu pea koe, ō hoa mahi, ō kaimahi rānei, he tangata noa iho rānei ki te kōrero – e wātea ana ngā āwhina. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe --- Section Separator --- Kei reira ētahi mahi māmā ka taea e ngā rangatira pakihi kia whāiti te hōrapa o te huaketo i waenga i ngā kaimahi, kiritaki me ētahi atu manuhiri. Me mātua whakarite kei te mārama koe, ā, ka whakatinanahia ngā whakaritenga mō tō pakihi i raro i te tikanga rama ikiiki. Rapu mōhio mō ngā rama ikiiki Whakamahia te utauta aromatawai werohanga kia mōhio ai mēnā me whakahaere pea ngā mahi i tō pakihi e te hunga kua werohia. Kei raro ētahi rāngai e ngā whakatau werohanga. Werohanga KOWHEORI-19 me te whai mahi | Employment NZ (external link) Ngā whakatau werohanga E paiherea ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te tiaki i ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu kua raru ā rātau mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu mōrea ki tō rātau hauora me tō rātau haumaru. Me mātua whakarite kei te tino haumaru rawa atu tō pakihi, wāhi mahi rānei: me whai i ngā whakaritenga ārai kanohi me matawai ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, tētahi atu momo whaiwhai i te pātanga me whai i ngā whakaritenga a My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) me mātua whakarite ka noho ngā tāngata katoa ki te kāinga mēnā kei te māuiui rātau, ā, ka waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi me wātea mai he wē patuero me ngā hua horoi me whakarite kei te pai te hauhau i te wāhi mahi Me takatū, me haumaru Te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te whakamātautau Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Whakahauhau | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Me whakarite mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI ki tō wāhi, ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu pakihi e mahi ana koe. Me mōhio koe he aha ō kawenga hei rangatira pakihi. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: te whakarite ka taea e ngā kaimahi te mahi mai i te kāinga ina tika ana te whakatinana i ngā rārangi mahi motuhake e rua – hei tauira, rōpū kikorangi me te whero (kia kaua e pā tahi ngā rōpū e rua tētahi ki tētahi) kia haere tonu ngā mahi me te whakarite mahere tuarua. Kua whakaputahia e Hīkina Whakatutuki tētahi aratohu (external link) hei āwhina te whakauru mai i ō kaimahi ki ngā kōrerorero me pēhea pea te whakarerekē i ngā tūranga, ngā kawenga me te āhua o te mahi ka pēhea pea tō whakahaere me ngā kaimahi tokoiti ake te mahi me ngā kaiwhakarato ohumahi wā poto mō te tūpono noa ka hiahia tautoko atu anō koe te hopu i ngā tukanga kia taea e ētahi atu kaimahi te mahi ngā mahi mēnā kāore e taea e tētahi te mahi kei a wai te kawenga, te mana rānei mō ngā tūmomo āhuatanga o tō pakihi? Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi. Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Mēnā he tuku ratonga koe, hua rānei ki ētahi atu pakihi, me whakapā atu pea koe ki ō kiritaki ka tuari i ō mahere. Mā te mārama ki ā rātau mahere ka āwhina anō pea i a koe kia takatū ai ki ngā rerekētanga o nga tono, ngā wā, me pēhea rānei te whakahāngai i te āhua o tō tuku i ō ratonga me ō hua kia rite ai ki ngā tikanga e mahi nei rātau. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: ka pēhea tō kōrero ki ngā kaimahi – kei te hou tonu ngā taipitopito whakapā a ngā kaimahi, ohotata hoki? ka pēhea tō tautoko i a rātau (hei tauira, te waewaea haere atu, te tuku tautoko atu anō mō ngā āhuatanga takitahi, aha atu, aha atu.)? ka pēhea tō whakamōhio atu ki ngā kiritaki, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mō tētahi whaipānga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 me mōhio rātau, mēnā rānei me huri koe i ō whakahaere nā te wāteatanga o ngā kaimahi? ka pēhea tō tiaki i te tūmataitinga o te tangata. Kaua rawa e tuaritia ngā ingoa me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā e whirinaki ana tō pakihi ki ngā hua, ngā ratonga rānei a ētahi atu pakihi, me kōrero koe ki a rātau mō ā rātau mahere mahi haere tonu, mahere tuarua hoki. Ka whai pānga pea ā rātau mahere ki āu ake. Ka hiahia pea koe ki te kōrero ki ngā kaiwhakarato: ka pēhea tā rātau whakarite i ngā hōnea o ngā kaimahi ka pēhea tā rātau tuku ratonga, rawa rānei mēnā he iti rawa ngā kaimahi? mēnā me whakaroa ake e koe ngā wā mō te whiwhi ōta, kia auau ake rānei te ōta? mēnā he kaimahi kei reira nō tētahi atu kaiwhakarato e tino whirinaki ana tō pakihi, ko wai te takawaenga tuarua? mēnā he iti rawa te kaha o tō kaiwhakarato, ko koe tonu tētahi o ngā kiritaki ka whakaratoa tonutia e rātau? Me whai whakaaro ki te hunga e whirinaki ana koe e mahi tahi nei tō pakihi me te whiriwhiri i ngā upane ka taea e koe me taua kaiwhakarato kia mau ai ngā ratonga e hiahiatia ana, ngā rawa rānei, ki te pāngia rātau e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whiwhi wero te tikanga pai rawa hei tiaki i ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga 18 tau, pakeke atu rānei e āhei ana ki tētahi potanga whakakaha mēnā kua eke te 3 marama mai i tā rātau whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu mōhio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi mō te werohanga | Employment New Zealand (external link) Kāore e kore ka pāngia tētahi tangata e mōhio ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Kei reira te pūnaha hauora manaaki i ngā wā katoa ki te tiaki i te hunga hiahia āwhina, engari ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e mate ki te uru ki te hōhipera, ā, ka pai noa iho te noho taratahi i te kāinga. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tāngata i ō rātau whare ki te kāinga, ā, kia kaua e pāpā ki ētahi atu, tae atu ki ō rātau hoa, whānau hoki. Me whakatenatena i te tangata ki te hanga mahere mā te whakamahi i tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū Mō te KOWHEORI-19. Me tikiake tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ka pā mai pea te ahotea i te whakahaere i ngā pānga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka hiahia tohutohu pea koe, ō hoa mahi, ō kaimahi rānei, he tangata noa iho rānei ki te kōrero – e wātea ana ngā āwhina. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 Kua rite tō kāinga ina pāngia tētahi e te KOWHEORI-19? | Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei | Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro --- Section Separator --- He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei (external link) .
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Te aromatawai KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 testing --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe i te motu, otirā ka hiahia te kaiwhakahaere kawenga i tētahi whakamātautau huakore e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e kuhu ana koe ki Aotearoa e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe i te motu, otirā ka hiahia te kaiwhakahaere kawenga i tētahi whakamātautau huakore e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e kuhu ana koe ki Aotearoa e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test --- Section Separator --- Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [PDF, 567 KB] Ka rerekē te āhua o ngā tohutohu whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo. Whāia ai e ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi ngā tohutohu i raro nei, engari kaua te katoa. Tēnā whāia ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga . Wātea ai ngā hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere i te 20 mineti. Tangohia he pani ihu i te pūkoro. Kuhuna te rākau pani ki tētahi pongāihu, kia 2-3cm mai i te taha o te pongāihu. Āta hurihuritia te pani kia rima ngā wā i te mata o te pongāihu. Mā taua rākau pani tonu, tōaitia te tukanga kohi i tētahi atu pongāihu. Tirohia ngā tohutohu o te pouaka ki te whakaū i te angawā tika hei pānui i tō hua. Ka rerekē pea tēnei i runga i te āhua o te momo kete. Tīhorea te hīri konumohe i runga i te ipuriki waiwāhi, e mau nei te waiwāhi pūtau. Purua te pani ki roto i te ipuriki waiwāhi. Kia kaha tonu te hurihuri i te pani kia rima ngā wā. Tangohia te pani mā te huri i te pani ki te taha o te ipuriki, i te wā e kōtē ana i ngā tahataha e tuku ai te wē i te kōwiri. Katia te ipuriki mā te taupoki, ā, kia kaha tonu te whakamau ki runga i te ipuriki. Kia kaha tonu te kōrori mā te perepere i te wāhanga o raro o te ipu. Huri kōarotia te ipuriki, ka pupuri i te tīpakohanga ki runga ake o te poka tīpakohanga. Āta kōtēhia te ipuriki. Tukua ngā pata e tika ana ki tā ngā tohutohu o te kete, kia heke ki roto i te poka tīpakohanga. Tēnā tirohia ngā tohutohu o te kete, ka whai i te wā e tika ana ki te tiro i tō hua whakamātautau. E tohu ana tētahi rārangi i te taha o te C, kāore he mate Ina whiwhi koe i te hua whakamātautau kāore he mate, ā, kāore ō tohumate, kua mutu te wāhanga ki a koe. E tohu ana ngā rārangi e rua, i te taha o te C me te T, e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Mēnā kāore he rārangi i te taha o te C, e tohu ana tērā he muhu te whakamātautau. Mēnā he muhu tētahi hua, me whakamātau anō. Me pūrongo koe i tō hua. Ka taea tēnei i runga i My Covid Record. Takiuru ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) waea atu rānei ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te kōwhiringa 3. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi kaupapa Close Contact Exemption Scheme, me whakamōhio koe i tō kaituku mahi ki tō hua. --- Section Separator --- Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [PDF, 567 KB] --- Section Separator --- Ka rerekē te āhua o ngā tohutohu whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo. Whāia ai e ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi ngā tohutohu i raro nei, engari kaua te katoa. Tēnā whāia ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga . Wātea ai ngā hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere i te 20 mineti. Tangohia he pani ihu i te pūkoro. Kuhuna te rākau pani ki tētahi pongāihu, kia 2-3cm mai i te taha o te pongāihu. Āta hurihuritia te pani kia rima ngā wā i te mata o te pongāihu. Mā taua rākau pani tonu, tōaitia te tukanga kohi i tētahi atu pongāihu. Tirohia ngā tohutohu o te pouaka ki te whakaū i te angawā tika hei pānui i tō hua. Ka rerekē pea tēnei i runga i te āhua o te momo kete. Tīhorea te hīri konumohe i runga i te ipuriki waiwāhi, e mau nei te waiwāhi pūtau. Purua te pani ki roto i te ipuriki waiwāhi. Kia kaha tonu te hurihuri i te pani kia rima ngā wā. Tangohia te pani mā te huri i te pani ki te taha o te ipuriki, i te wā e kōtē ana i ngā tahataha e tuku ai te wē i te kōwiri. Katia te ipuriki mā te taupoki, ā, kia kaha tonu te whakamau ki runga i te ipuriki. Kia kaha tonu te kōrori mā te perepere i te wāhanga o raro o te ipu. Huri kōarotia te ipuriki, ka pupuri i te tīpakohanga ki runga ake o te poka tīpakohanga. Āta kōtēhia te ipuriki. Tukua ngā pata e tika ana ki tā ngā tohutohu o te kete, kia heke ki roto i te poka tīpakohanga. Tēnā tirohia ngā tohutohu o te kete, ka whai i te wā e tika ana ki te tiro i tō hua whakamātautau. E tohu ana tētahi rārangi i te taha o te C, kāore he mate Ina whiwhi koe i te hua whakamātautau kāore he mate, ā, kāore ō tohumate, kua mutu te wāhanga ki a koe. E tohu ana ngā rārangi e rua, i te taha o te C me te T, e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Mēnā kāore he rārangi i te taha o te C, e tohu ana tērā he muhu te whakamātautau. Mēnā he muhu tētahi hua, me whakamātau anō. Me pūrongo koe i tō hua. Ka taea tēnei i runga i My Covid Record. Takiuru ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) waea atu rānei ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te kōwhiringa 3. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi kaupapa Close Contact Exemption Scheme, me whakamōhio koe i tō kaituku mahi ki tō hua. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19? | What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Ehara i te mea me whakamā mēnā ka whakaatu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe - ka pā tēnei ki ngā tāngata katoa. Kāore he aha ki te KOWHEORI-19 ko wai ka whakapokea. Ki te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi rānei, māna, he rerekē ngā tohutohu a tētahi kaiwhakahaere tiakanga. Me pupuri hoki koe i tō waea, ā, me whakautu hoki. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau PCR kei te pāngia koe, ka whakamōhiotia koe ki tō hua mai i te nama ōkawa 2328. Kei roto tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono hei whakakī māhau. Ka āhua 10 ki te 20 mineti te roa ki te whakakī i te puka me te tono i ō mōhiohio hauora, ō pānga ā-kāinga, me ngā wāhi mōrearea nui i tae atu ai pea koe. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me tuku i tō hua ki My Covid Record. Mēnā e hiahia āwhina ana koe me waea i te 0800 222 478 . Mēnā e whiwhi ana koe i tētahi RAT e āta tirohia ana i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau hapori, tētahi atu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei, mā ngā kaimahi e whakauru i tō hua ki te raraunga matatapu a Te Manatū Hauora me My Covid Record. Ka tukuna hoki ki a koe tētahi pātuhi mai i te nama ōkawa 2328, kei roto nei tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono mō ngā mōhiohio hauora, whaiwhai pānga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaū ngā RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki tētahi whakamātautau PCR, māna he rerekē ngā tohutohu. Ka rerekē anō ngā tohutohu o ngā whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo, ā, he mea nui tonu te whai i ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga. E wātea ana he mōhiohio anō, me ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere RAT, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi | Tere Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Takiuru me te pūrongo i ō hua | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) Me noho taratahi i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi whakamātautau e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka tīmata tō wā taratahi mai i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, i te rā rānei ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mēnā kāore ō tohumate. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa kei te kāinga e noho ana. Ka wātea pea ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore e taea e koe te noho haumaru i te wāhi e noho ana koe. Ka taea e koe te tohu i tēnei mā te puka tuihono ka whakakīhia e koe. I muri i te wā noho taratahi, mēnā kua kore katoa ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e koe te puta i te noho taratahi.Ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō koe. Ko ō hoa noho kāinga me whai whakamātautau e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia e te mate, i ngā rā i mua o te putanga i te noho taratahi. Noho taratahi i te kāinga Mēnā e hiahia tohutohu hauora ana koe, tirohia ngā rauemi tuihono i te tuatahi. Ngā rauemi tuihono (external link) Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora kōhukihuki, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ko tō kaiwhakapā ko tētahi tangata takitahi pea, ko tētahi rōpū nō tō whare tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, tō ratonga hauora ā-hapori rānei. Te tautoko hauora i tō rohe - COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, ka kīia he Pānga ā-Kāinga. Ahakoa kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, karekau rānei, me: noho rātou ki te kāinga, ka noho taratahi i ētahi atu mai i te rā i whiwhi ai koe i tō hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mai i te wā rānei i tīmata ō tohumate, otirā ko te tuatahi o ērā. haere kia whakamātauria mō te KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā noho taratahi. haere kia whakamātauria mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate. Ina tohu tā rātou whakamātautau kei te pāngia, me tīmata anō tā rātou wā noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā e tohu ana ngā whakamātautau a ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore hoki he tohumate, ka taea e rātou te whakaoti i te wā noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe. Ina tohua ake tō whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me whakakī koe i tētahi puka tuihono mō te whaiwhai pānga me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mēnā kāore ō waea kawe, e hiahia ana rānei koe i te āwhina ki te whakakī i te puka, waea ki 0800 555 728 . Mā te puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei koe ki te tiri haumaru: i ō tohumate i ngā taipitopito o ō pānga ā-kāinga i ngā taipitopito o ngā wāhi mōrearea nui kua tae koe ētahi atu mōhiohio hauora ka āwhina i a mātou ki te whakarite i tō whiwhinga i te tautoko hauora āpiti mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Ka hono hoki ki tētahi tono āwhina oranga ki Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora, me ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore i te haumaru tō noho i tō kāinga ake. Mā tēnei puka, ka tiri koe i tō rātaka Nz Covid Tracer, me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka, i te mahi i runga i te waea - tata ki te 20 meneti noa iho. Kia whiwhi i a koe te pātuhi, ka taea e koe te tīmata i roto i te 72 hāora. Ki te kore koe e tuku i te puka i roto i te 72 hāora, ka waea pea tētahi tangata me te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga i te waea. Puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ehara i te mea me whakamā mēnā ka whakaatu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe - ka pā tēnei ki ngā tāngata katoa. Kāore he aha ki te KOWHEORI-19 ko wai ka whakapokea. Ki te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi rānei, māna, he rerekē ngā tohutohu a tētahi kaiwhakahaere tiakanga. Me pupuri hoki koe i tō waea, ā, me whakautu hoki. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau PCR kei te pāngia koe, ka whakamōhiotia koe ki tō hua mai i te nama ōkawa 2328. Kei roto tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono hei whakakī māhau. Ka āhua 10 ki te 20 mineti te roa ki te whakakī i te puka me te tono i ō mōhiohio hauora, ō pānga ā-kāinga, me ngā wāhi mōrearea nui i tae atu ai pea koe. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me tuku i tō hua ki My Covid Record. Mēnā e hiahia āwhina ana koe me waea i te 0800 222 478 . Mēnā e whiwhi ana koe i tētahi RAT e āta tirohia ana i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau hapori, tētahi atu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei, mā ngā kaimahi e whakauru i tō hua ki te raraunga matatapu a Te Manatū Hauora me My Covid Record. Ka tukuna hoki ki a koe tētahi pātuhi mai i te nama ōkawa 2328, kei roto nei tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono mō ngā mōhiohio hauora, whaiwhai pānga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaū ngā RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki tētahi whakamātautau PCR, māna he rerekē ngā tohutohu. Ka rerekē anō ngā tohutohu o ngā whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo, ā, he mea nui tonu te whai i ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga. E wātea ana he mōhiohio anō, me ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere RAT, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi | Tere Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Takiuru me te pūrongo i ō hua | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) Me noho taratahi i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi whakamātautau e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka tīmata tō wā taratahi mai i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, i te rā rānei ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mēnā kāore ō tohumate. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa kei te kāinga e noho ana. Ka wātea pea ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore e taea e koe te noho haumaru i te wāhi e noho ana koe. Ka taea e koe te tohu i tēnei mā te puka tuihono ka whakakīhia e koe. I muri i te wā noho taratahi, mēnā kua kore katoa ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e koe te puta i te noho taratahi.Ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō koe. Ko ō hoa noho kāinga me whai whakamātautau e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia e te mate, i ngā rā i mua o te putanga i te noho taratahi. Noho taratahi i te kāinga Mēnā e hiahia tohutohu hauora ana koe, tirohia ngā rauemi tuihono i te tuatahi. Ngā rauemi tuihono (external link) Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora kōhukihuki, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ko tō kaiwhakapā ko tētahi tangata takitahi pea, ko tētahi rōpū nō tō whare tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, tō ratonga hauora ā-hapori rānei. Te tautoko hauora i tō rohe - COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, ka kīia he Pānga ā-Kāinga. Ahakoa kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, karekau rānei, me: noho rātou ki te kāinga, ka noho taratahi i ētahi atu mai i te rā i whiwhi ai koe i tō hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mai i te wā rānei i tīmata ō tohumate, otirā ko te tuatahi o ērā. haere kia whakamātauria mō te KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā noho taratahi. haere kia whakamātauria mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate. Ina tohu tā rātou whakamātautau kei te pāngia, me tīmata anō tā rātou wā noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā e tohu ana ngā whakamātautau a ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore hoki he tohumate, ka taea e rātou te whakaoti i te wā noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe. Ina tohua ake tō whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me whakakī koe i tētahi puka tuihono mō te whaiwhai pānga me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mēnā kāore ō waea kawe, e hiahia ana rānei koe i te āwhina ki te whakakī i te puka, waea ki 0800 555 728 . Mā te puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei koe ki te tiri haumaru: i ō tohumate i ngā taipitopito o ō pānga ā-kāinga i ngā taipitopito o ngā wāhi mōrearea nui kua tae koe ētahi atu mōhiohio hauora ka āwhina i a mātou ki te whakarite i tō whiwhinga i te tautoko hauora āpiti mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Ka hono hoki ki tētahi tono āwhina oranga ki Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora, me ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore i te haumaru tō noho i tō kāinga ake. Mā tēnei puka, ka tiri koe i tō rātaka Nz Covid Tracer, me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka, i te mahi i runga i te waea - tata ki te 20 meneti noa iho. Kia whiwhi i a koe te pātuhi, ka taea e koe te tīmata i roto i te 72 hāora. Ki te kore koe e tuku i te puka i roto i te 72 hāora, ka waea pea tētahi tangata me te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga i te waea. Puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai | When you should get a test --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei ōu, me whai whakamātautau. Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mā tētahi mātanga hauora koe e whakamōhio ake. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate, me whiwhi noa koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā kua tohutohutia koe e tētahi āpiha hauora - hei tauira, mēnā he pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi i whakatauria ai kei te pāngia. Ngā tohumate COVID-19 E whiwhi ai koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, waea ki: Tō tākuta, nēhi rānei Healthline mō te koreutu i te 0800 358 5453 tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi, he wāhi whakamātautau ā-hapori rānei. Kimihia ngā wāhi whakamātautau Mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau. E kore ngā pānga tata e mate ki te rapu whakamātautau, māna ka kitea he tohumate. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tō tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana, i mua i te ekenga. Me whiwhi i te whakamātautau i roto i te 72 hāora i mua o tō haeretanga. Me whiwhi te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa i tētahi hua whakamātautau i mua o te haere, e kī ana kāore e pāngia ana. Ko te tikanga he whakamātautau: polymerase chain reaction (PCR) i whakahaeretia i te 48 hāora iti ake rānei i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa, tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e āta tirohia ana, e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa, tētahi whakamātautau loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) e ātahi tirohia ana, e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa, rānei. Me whiwhi tonu koe i tētahi whakamātautau ahakoa he kano ārai mate tāu mō te KOWHEORI-19. Rapua anō he kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau i mua i te kuhunga ki Aotearoa Mēnā e haere ana koe i Aotearoa ki tētahi atu whenua, tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki te kōti, ā, kāore ō tohumate, engari kāore anō kia whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate, me whakaatu koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. E herea ana ētahi tāngata ki te whiwhi i ngā whakamātautau auau nā te mōrearea e pā ana ki tō rātou tūranga mahi. Ka uru ki tēnei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 me te tūpono tuku haere i taua mate ki ētahi atu (hei tauira, ngā kaimahi hauora, kaimahi rohenga whenua hoki). Mā tō kaituku mahi koe e kōrero atu mēnā e herea ana koe ki te whiwhi whakamātautau. Ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19? --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei ōu, me whai whakamātautau. Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mā tētahi mātanga hauora koe e whakamōhio ake. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate, me whiwhi noa koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā kua tohutohutia koe e tētahi āpiha hauora - hei tauira, mēnā he pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi i whakatauria ai kei te pāngia. Ngā tohumate COVID-19 E whiwhi ai koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, waea ki: Tō tākuta, nēhi rānei Healthline mō te koreutu i te 0800 358 5453 tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi, he wāhi whakamātautau ā-hapori rānei. Kimihia ngā wāhi whakamātautau Mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau. E kore ngā pānga tata e mate ki te rapu whakamātautau, māna ka kitea he tohumate. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tō tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana, i mua i te ekenga. Me whiwhi i te whakamātautau i roto i te 72 hāora i mua o tō haeretanga. Me whiwhi te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa i tētahi hua whakamātautau i mua o te haere, e kī ana kāore e pāngia ana. Ko te tikanga he whakamātautau: polymerase chain reaction (PCR) i whakahaeretia i te 48 hāora iti ake rānei i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa, tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e āta tirohia ana, e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa, tētahi whakamātautau loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) e ātahi tirohia ana, e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa, rānei. Me whiwhi tonu koe i tētahi whakamātautau ahakoa he kano ārai mate tāu mō te KOWHEORI-19. Rapua anō he kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau i mua i te kuhunga ki Aotearoa Mēnā e haere ana koe i Aotearoa ki tētahi atu whenua, tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki te kōti, ā, kāore ō tohumate, engari kāore anō kia whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate, me whakaatu koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. E herea ana ētahi tāngata ki te whiwhi i ngā whakamātautau auau nā te mōrearea e pā ana ki tō rātou tūranga mahi. Ka uru ki tēnei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 me te tūpono tuku haere i taua mate ki ētahi atu (hei tauira, ngā kaimahi hauora, kaimahi rohenga whenua hoki). Mā tō kaituku mahi koe e kōrero atu mēnā e herea ana koe ki te whiwhi whakamātautau. Ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19? --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Ngā wāhi e whakamātauhia ai koe | Where you can get tested --- Section Separator --- Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Kākāriki – ka whakamahia ina iti noa te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera, ka taea e te pūnaha hauora te urupare. Karaka – ka whakamahia ina piki haere ana te rere ā-hapori o te KOWHEORI-19, e whakapaua ana ngā rawa a te pūnaha haora katoa ki te whakahaere i te urutā, kei te piki haere te mōrea ki te iwi whānui. Whero – e whakamahia ana ina hiahiatia ana kia whakamarutia te pūnaha hauora me te whakamaru i ngā taupori noho mōrea. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Karaka | Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho taratahi me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho taratahi me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Whero | Life at Red --- Section Separator --- He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Ka tino kaha ake te tiaki i a koe anō mai i te KOWHEORI-19 i te whiwhi wero. Mēnā he pakeke atu koe i te 18 tau, ā, kua 3 marama mai i tō whiwhi i tō whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e āhei ana koe ki tētahi potanga whakakaha. Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō ngā potanga whakakaha Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakahau ana mātau i a koe kia mau ārai kanohi koe ina wehe koe i te kāinga. Ko te ārai kanohi me mau ki te māhunga mā ngā here e huri ana i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Arā, tē taea ngā kāmeta, tākai, tī-hāte rānei te whakamahi. I te Whero me mātua mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga waka rererangi i te motu i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga tēkehi me ngā waka tuari waka haere i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi tūmatanui/whakaurunga (kaua ngā hōpua kaukau) i ngā kēmihi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā wāhi ratonga hauora i ngā whakanōhanga tiaki kaumātua i rō kura, hei tauira i tētahi akomanga me ngā whakaminenga. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 me ngā kaimahi i rō whakanōhanga mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i tētahi pakihi kai me te inu, ngā pakihi e pātata ai te tangata (hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā toa whakaatahua), ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō ārai kanohi ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana. E tino whakahautia ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ētahi atu wāhi katoa ka haere koe. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho whakamohoao me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata kei te mau ārai kanohi ina whakaritea ana kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki, i rō whare, i runga waka kawe tūmatanui me ngā ratonga waka kawe e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako ina whakaako me te hāpai i ngā Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki. E whakahau ana i ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, ngā whānau me ētahi atu manuhiri kia mau ārai kanohi i te wāhi. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā mata e tiria ai. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. --- Section Separator --- He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Ka tino kaha ake te tiaki i a koe anō mai i te KOWHEORI-19 i te whiwhi wero. Mēnā he pakeke atu koe i te 18 tau, ā, kua 3 marama mai i tō whiwhi i tō whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e āhei ana koe ki tētahi potanga whakakaha. Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō ngā potanga whakakaha Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakahau ana mātau i a koe kia mau ārai kanohi koe ina wehe koe i te kāinga. Ko te ārai kanohi me mau ki te māhunga mā ngā here e huri ana i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Arā, tē taea ngā kāmeta, tākai, tī-hāte rānei te whakamahi. I te Whero me mātua mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga waka rererangi i te motu i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga tēkehi me ngā waka tuari waka haere i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi tūmatanui/whakaurunga (kaua ngā hōpua kaukau) i ngā kēmihi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā wāhi ratonga hauora i ngā whakanōhanga tiaki kaumātua i rō kura, hei tauira i tētahi akomanga me ngā whakaminenga. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 me ngā kaimahi i rō whakanōhanga mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i tētahi pakihi kai me te inu, ngā pakihi e pātata ai te tangata (hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā toa whakaatahua), ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō ārai kanohi ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana. E tino whakahautia ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ētahi atu wāhi katoa ka haere koe. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho whakamohoao me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata kei te mau ārai kanohi ina whakaritea ana kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki, i rō whare, i runga waka kawe tūmatanui me ngā ratonga waka kawe e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako ina whakaako me te hāpai i ngā Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki. E whakahau ana i ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, ngā whānau me ētahi atu manuhiri kia mau ārai kanohi i te wāhi. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā mata e tiria ai. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. Te mahere upane-5 ki te whakatuwhera anō i ngā rohenga whenua o Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. Te mahere upane-5 ki te whakatuwhera anō i ngā rohenga whenua o Aotearoa.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te Wehe i Aotearoa | Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: i te paetukutuku whaimana o te whenua e hiahia ana koe ki te uru atu, te peka rānei, tērā rānei i te māngai kāwanatanga o taua whenua kei Aotearoa. Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ina whakaūngia ō mahere haerenga, whakapā atu ki Healthline, ki tō rata rānei. Rapua te wā me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia. Me tutuki te whakamātautau kia tino tata ki te wā o tō wehenga — tirohia te wā e hāngai ana ki tō whenua. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu i te whakamātautau. Ka tukuna tō whakamātautau ki tētahi taiwhanga paetata, ā, ka tukuna he otinga ki tō rata, ki a koe tonu rānei. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e tētahi kaiwhakarato hauora mō te otinga o te whakamātautau. Tērā pea ka pau ētahi rā kia puta mai ō otinga, nō reira me whakarite kia kaua rawa e tino tōmuri. Me kī ka whakaatu te otinga kāore koe i te mate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi kape tāhiko, pepa rānei o ngā otinga hei heri ki te taunga rererangi. Mēnā ka kitea kei te mate koe, ka kōrero tō kaiwhakarato hauora ki a koe ka aha ā muri ake. Me heri ō otinga whakamātautau kore mate ki te wāhi taki-mai i te taunga rererangi. Me whakaatu pea koe i ō otinga ki te mana ārai, te ratonga manene rānei i tō taenga atu ki te wāhi e haere ana koe. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: i te paetukutuku whaimana o te whenua e hiahia ana koe ki te uru atu, te peka rānei, tērā rānei i te māngai kāwanatanga o taua whenua kei Aotearoa. Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ina whakaūngia ō mahere haerenga, whakapā atu ki Healthline, ki tō rata rānei. Rapua te wā me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia. Me tutuki te whakamātautau kia tino tata ki te wā o tō wehenga — tirohia te wā e hāngai ana ki tō whenua. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu i te whakamātautau. Ka tukuna tō whakamātautau ki tētahi taiwhanga paetata, ā, ka tukuna he otinga ki tō rata, ki a koe tonu rānei. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e tētahi kaiwhakarato hauora mō te otinga o te whakamātautau. Tērā pea ka pau ētahi rā kia puta mai ō otinga, nō reira me whakarite kia kaua rawa e tino tōmuri. Me kī ka whakaatu te otinga kāore koe i te mate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi kape tāhiko, pepa rānei o ngā otinga hei heri ki te taunga rererangi. Mēnā ka kitea kei te mate koe, ka kōrero tō kaiwhakarato hauora ki a koe ka aha ā muri ake. Me heri ō otinga whakamātautau kore mate ki te wāhi taki-mai i te taunga rererangi. Me whakaatu pea koe i ō otinga ki te mana ārai, te ratonga manene rānei i tō taenga atu ki te wāhi e haere ana koe. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te whakatuwhera anō i ngā rohenga whenua o Aotearoa | Re-opening New Zealand's borders --- Section Separator --- Atu i te 11:59pm, 27 o Huitanguru 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa mai i Ahitereiria me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho o Aotearoa Ētahi atu tāngata haere e māraurau ana i raro i ngā tautuhinga rohenga whenua o te wā nei. Ko ngā tāngata haere kano ārai mate kore, me te hunga kāore i eke ki ngā herenga kano ārai mate o Aotearoa, me kuhu tonu ki te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi (MIQ) mēnā e māraurau tonu ana ki te uru ki Aotearoa. Tirohia ko wai e āhei ana ki te haere ki Aotearoa i raro i ā tātou tautuhinga rohenga whenua o nāianei | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Atu i te 11:59pm, 13 o Poutūterangi 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa mai i ngā tōpito katoa o te ao me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho o Aotearoa Ētahi atu tāngata haere e māraurau ana i raro i ngā tautuhinga rohenga whenua o te wā nei. Ko nga kaimahi whai pūkenga e whiwhi ana i te 1.5x neke atu rānei o te utu ā-haora tau waenga. Ngā tāngata haere kei runga kaupapa mahi ā-hararei. Ngā hoa rangatira me ngā tamariki a ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho o Aotearoa, engari me tutuki ngā herenga kōkota, kano ārai mate ake hoki. Ehara i te mea me haere kotahi te whānau ki Aotearoa. Ko ngā tāngata haere kano ārai mate kore, me te hunga kāore i eke ki ngā herenga kano ārai mate o Aotearoa, me kuhu tonu ki te noho ki MIQ mēnā e māraurau tonu ana ki te uru ki Aotearoa. Tirohia ko wai e āhei ana ki te haere ki Aotearoa i raro i ā tātou tautuhinga rohenga whenua o nāianei | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Atu i te 11:59pm, 12 o Paengawhāwhā 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa mai i ngā tōpito katoa o te ao me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā kaipupuri kōkota taupua tāwāhi o te wā nei, me te kōkota whaimana, mēnā e tutuki tonu i a ia ngā herenga kōkota. Atu ki te 5,000 ākonga ā-ao mō te hēmeta 2 Atu i te Hōngongoi 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā tāngata haere katoa mai i Ahitereiria. Ngā manuhiri o ngā whenua kāore e hiahia i tētahi kōkota (ngā manuhiri kōkota wātea) Ngā tāngata haere ka tae mai i raro i ngā wāhanga Kōkota Mahi Whakamana Kaituku Mahi. Ngā whenua me ngā rohe kōkota wātea | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Kōkota Mahi Whakamana Kaituku Mahi | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Atu i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2022, ka tuwhera anō ngā wāhanga kōkota katoa hei te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2022, tae atu ki ngā kōkota manuhiri, ākonga hoki. Ka wātea anake te noho taratahi i te kāinga ki ngā tāngata haere kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa e māraurau ana ki te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa. Ka noho taratahi i te kāinga ngā tāngata haere mō te 7 rā. Mēnā ka rerekē te wā noho taratahi i te kāinga o Aotearoa, ka rerekē hoki te wā noho i te kāinga mā ngā tāngata haere. Ka whakaratoa ki ngā tāngata haere ngā whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere e toru i te taunga rererangi, ko tētahi hei whakamahinga i te rā 0/1, me tētahi hei te rā 5/6, ā, ko tētahi atu he toenga. Ina puta he whakamātautau e kī ana e pāngia ana te tangata e te mate, me whiwhi whakamātautau PCR i tētahi Pokapū Whakamātautau Hapori, Tākuta rānei kia pai ai te whakaraupapa ira, e wawe ai te tautuhi me te urupare ki ngā momo hou e kuhu mai ana i te rohenga whenua. Me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga --- Section Separator --- Atu i te 11:59pm, 27 o Huitanguru 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa mai i Ahitereiria me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho o Aotearoa Ētahi atu tāngata haere e māraurau ana i raro i ngā tautuhinga rohenga whenua o te wā nei. Ko ngā tāngata haere kano ārai mate kore, me te hunga kāore i eke ki ngā herenga kano ārai mate o Aotearoa, me kuhu tonu ki te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi (MIQ) mēnā e māraurau tonu ana ki te uru ki Aotearoa. Tirohia ko wai e āhei ana ki te haere ki Aotearoa i raro i ā tātou tautuhinga rohenga whenua o nāianei | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Atu i te 11:59pm, 13 o Poutūterangi 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa mai i ngā tōpito katoa o te ao me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho o Aotearoa Ētahi atu tāngata haere e māraurau ana i raro i ngā tautuhinga rohenga whenua o te wā nei. Ko nga kaimahi whai pūkenga e whiwhi ana i te 1.5x neke atu rānei o te utu ā-haora tau waenga. Ngā tāngata haere kei runga kaupapa mahi ā-hararei. Ngā hoa rangatira me ngā tamariki a ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho o Aotearoa, engari me tutuki ngā herenga kōkota, kano ārai mate ake hoki. Ehara i te mea me haere kotahi te whānau ki Aotearoa. Ko ngā tāngata haere kano ārai mate kore, me te hunga kāore i eke ki ngā herenga kano ārai mate o Aotearoa, me kuhu tonu ki te noho ki MIQ mēnā e māraurau tonu ana ki te uru ki Aotearoa. Tirohia ko wai e āhei ana ki te haere ki Aotearoa i raro i ā tātou tautuhinga rohenga whenua o nāianei | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Atu i te 11:59pm, 12 o Paengawhāwhā 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa mai i ngā tōpito katoa o te ao me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā kaipupuri kōkota taupua tāwāhi o te wā nei, me te kōkota whaimana, mēnā e tutuki tonu i a ia ngā herenga kōkota. Atu ki te 5,000 ākonga ā-ao mō te hēmeta 2 Atu i te Hōngongoi 2022, ka taea e tēnei hunga kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa, te uru mai ki Aotearoa me te noho taratahi i te kāinga i te taenga mai: Ngā tāngata haere katoa mai i Ahitereiria. Ngā manuhiri o ngā whenua kāore e hiahia i tētahi kōkota (ngā manuhiri kōkota wātea) Ngā tāngata haere ka tae mai i raro i ngā wāhanga Kōkota Mahi Whakamana Kaituku Mahi. Ngā whenua me ngā rohe kōkota wātea | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Kōkota Mahi Whakamana Kaituku Mahi | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Atu i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2022, ka tuwhera anō ngā wāhanga kōkota katoa hei te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2022, tae atu ki ngā kōkota manuhiri, ākonga hoki. Ka wātea anake te noho taratahi i te kāinga ki ngā tāngata haere kua whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate katoa e māraurau ana ki te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa. Ka noho taratahi i te kāinga ngā tāngata haere mō te 7 rā. Mēnā ka rerekē te wā noho taratahi i te kāinga o Aotearoa, ka rerekē hoki te wā noho i te kāinga mā ngā tāngata haere. Ka whakaratoa ki ngā tāngata haere ngā whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere e toru i te taunga rererangi, ko tētahi hei whakamahinga i te rā 0/1, me tētahi hei te rā 5/6, ā, ko tētahi atu he toenga. Ina puta he whakamātautau e kī ana e pāngia ana te tangata e te mate, me whiwhi whakamātautau PCR i tētahi Pokapū Whakamātautau Hapori, Tākuta rānei kia pai ai te whakaraupapa ira, e wawe ai te tautuhi me te urupare ki ngā momo hou e kuhu mai ana i te rohenga whenua. Me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te hāereere i Aotearoa | Travel around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kua hipa te 3 marama mai i tō pota tuarua. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kua hipa te 3 marama mai i tō pota tuarua.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te whiwhi i tō pota āpiti | Getting your booster dose --- Section Separator --- Mēnā i whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate tuarua e 3 marama ki muri, ā, he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, e āhei ana koe ki te whiwhi pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku tohu ārai mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei i 0800 28 29 26 mai i te 26 o Whiringa-a-rangi. Book My Vaccine (external link) E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga he 95.6% te whai hua o ngā pota āpiti ki te ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te momo Delta. E whakatauritea ana tēnei ki te hunga kāore i whiwhi i te pota āpiti. I tēnei wā, kāore he raraunga o te roa o te āraitanga mai i te pokenga me te mate i muri mai i te pota āpiti. Mēnā koe i werohia i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti Pfizer e 3 marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga. Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer te pota āpiti e whakahautia ana ahakoa te kano ārai mate i whiwhi koe i ērā o ō pota. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti e 3 marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā i whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate tuarua e 3 marama ki muri, ā, he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, e āhei ana koe ki te whiwhi pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku tohu ārai mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei i 0800 28 29 26 mai i te 26 o Whiringa-a-rangi. Book My Vaccine (external link) E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga he 95.6% te whai hua o ngā pota āpiti ki te ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te momo Delta. E whakatauritea ana tēnei ki te hunga kāore i whiwhi i te pota āpiti. I tēnei wā, kāore he raraunga o te roa o te āraitanga mai i te pokenga me te mate i muri mai i te pota āpiti. Mēnā koe i werohia i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti Pfizer e 3 marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga. Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer te pota āpiti e whakahautia ana ahakoa te kano ārai mate i whiwhi koe i ērā o ō pota. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti e 3 marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga | How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | The AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Engari e wātea ana te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Astra Zeneca ki te katoa kei tua i te 18 tau te pakeke e hiahia ana i tētahi whiringa kē, kāore rānei e āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer. He kano ārai mate kawe huaketo (viral vector). Kāore he huaketo SARS-CoV-2 i roto i te kano ārai mate, nō reira e kore koe e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 i tēnei kano ārai mate. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Me tatari koe mō te whā wiki, neke atu rānei, e āhei ai koe ki tō pota tuarua. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate e pai ake ai tō whakamarutanga. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka whakaatu ake a Book My Vaccine i tētahi rārangi ingoa o ngā pokapū kano ārai mate e wātea ana te AstraZeneca. Me kaua koe e whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mēnā: he tauhohenga tino pāwera tāu ki tēnei kano ārai mate, ki ōna matū whakauru rānei i pā tētahi tepetoto nui ki a koe i te wā e hahaka ana ō taumata mōtepe (thrombocytopenia) i muri i te whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i pā te Mate Ia-tōiti Papī (CLS - he mate e papī ai te wē i ngā ia-toto iti). Ka werohia te kano AstraZeneca ki roto i tētahi uaua (i te wāhanga whakarunga o te ringa). Ka taea te werohanga tuarua te tuku i waenga i te 4 ki te 12 wiki i muri i te werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te AstraZeneca mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpiti, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He iti rawa ngā raraunga o te whakamahinga o te AstraZeneca e te hunga e hapū ana, nō reira ka noho ko Pfizer tonu te kōwhiringa mariunga o te kano ārai mate mō tēnei hunga. Mēnā kei te hāpu, kei te whāngote rānei koe, e whakaaro ana rānei e hapū ana koe, tēnā kōrero ki tō tākuta mēnā ko AstraZeneca te kano ārai mate e tika ana mōu. Ka whakahoi te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i te pūnaha awhikiri o te tinana. Mā tēnei ka whakaputa paturopi te tinana hei āwhina ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakamaru i a koe i te KOWHEORI-19 i te anamata. E kore e hua mai te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā kaiwhakaranu o tēnei kano ārai mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, he 81% te parenga a te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaatu ana hoki i te whaihuatanga 80%, piki atu rānei, mai i te urunga ki te hōhipera i muri i te pota tuatahi. Mō te parenga tino pai rawa atu, me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua āta aromatawaitia te haumarutanga o te AstraZeneca e Medsafe. Kāore i pokanoa te tuku whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. He pānga kino tino mokorea ngā tepetoto o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. I pā ki te kotahi o ia 100,000 tāngata kua whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: hē o te manawa mamae uma pupuhi waewae mamae o ngā ringaringa, waewae rānei ānini pākaha atarua rangirua, hukihuki rānei mamae puku Kua rīpoatatia ētahi kēhi tino mokorea o te Mate Ia-Tōiti Papī (CLS). Ko ngā tohumate o tēnei mate ko te pupuhitanga wawe o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, te taumahatanga ohorere me te pōātinitini. Kua rīpoatatia hoki ngā kēhi tino mokorea o te mate Guillain-Barré (GBS). Ko te GBS he mate awhikiri mokorea, e pā ai te mate mumura ioio. Ko ētahi pea o ngā tohumate ko te mamae, te matangerengere, te ruha o ngā uaua o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, ā, tērā pea ka ahu atu ki te uma me te kanohi. Ina pā ētahi o ēnei tohumate ki a koe, me wawe te haere ki te tākuta. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Engari e wātea ana te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Astra Zeneca ki te katoa kei tua i te 18 tau te pakeke e hiahia ana i tētahi whiringa kē, kāore rānei e āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer. He kano ārai mate kawe huaketo (viral vector). Kāore he huaketo SARS-CoV-2 i roto i te kano ārai mate, nō reira e kore koe e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 i tēnei kano ārai mate. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Me tatari koe mō te whā wiki, neke atu rānei, e āhei ai koe ki tō pota tuarua. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate e pai ake ai tō whakamarutanga. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka whakaatu ake a Book My Vaccine i tētahi rārangi ingoa o ngā pokapū kano ārai mate e wātea ana te AstraZeneca. Me kaua koe e whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mēnā: he tauhohenga tino pāwera tāu ki tēnei kano ārai mate, ki ōna matū whakauru rānei i pā tētahi tepetoto nui ki a koe i te wā e hahaka ana ō taumata mōtepe (thrombocytopenia) i muri i te whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i pā te Mate Ia-tōiti Papī (CLS - he mate e papī ai te wē i ngā ia-toto iti). Ka werohia te kano AstraZeneca ki roto i tētahi uaua (i te wāhanga whakarunga o te ringa). Ka taea te werohanga tuarua te tuku i waenga i te 4 ki te 12 wiki i muri i te werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te AstraZeneca mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpiti, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He iti rawa ngā raraunga o te whakamahinga o te AstraZeneca e te hunga e hapū ana, nō reira ka noho ko Pfizer tonu te kōwhiringa mariunga o te kano ārai mate mō tēnei hunga. Mēnā kei te hāpu, kei te whāngote rānei koe, e whakaaro ana rānei e hapū ana koe, tēnā kōrero ki tō tākuta mēnā ko AstraZeneca te kano ārai mate e tika ana mōu. Ka whakahoi te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i te pūnaha awhikiri o te tinana. Mā tēnei ka whakaputa paturopi te tinana hei āwhina ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakamaru i a koe i te KOWHEORI-19 i te anamata. E kore e hua mai te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā kaiwhakaranu o tēnei kano ārai mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, he 81% te parenga a te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaatu ana hoki i te whaihuatanga 80%, piki atu rānei, mai i te urunga ki te hōhipera i muri i te pota tuatahi. Mō te parenga tino pai rawa atu, me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua āta aromatawaitia te haumarutanga o te AstraZeneca e Medsafe. Kāore i pokanoa te tuku whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. He pānga kino tino mokorea ngā tepetoto o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. I pā ki te kotahi o ia 100,000 tāngata kua whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: hē o te manawa mamae uma pupuhi waewae mamae o ngā ringaringa, waewae rānei ānini pākaha atarua rangirua, hukihuki rānei mamae puku Kua rīpoatatia ētahi kēhi tino mokorea o te Mate Ia-Tōiti Papī (CLS). Ko ngā tohumate o tēnei mate ko te pupuhitanga wawe o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, te taumahatanga ohorere me te pōātinitini. Kua rīpoatatia hoki ngā kēhi tino mokorea o te mate Guillain-Barré (GBS). Ko te GBS he mate awhikiri mokorea, e pā ai te mate mumura ioio. Ko ētahi pea o ngā tohumate ko te mamae, te matangerengere, te ruha o ngā uaua o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, ā, tērā pea ka ahu atu ki te uma me te kanohi. Ina pā ētahi o ēnei tohumate ki a koe, me wawe te haere ki te tākuta. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer | The Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5-11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Pakeke ake i te 18 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 3 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. Kei waenga i te 12 me te 18 tau te pakeke: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. I raro i te 12 tau te pakeke: e whakahaua ana kia 8 wiki te wā i waenganui i ngā pota. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . E kore koe e āhei ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kei raro koe i te 12 tau. Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpitihanga, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. I kitea tōna tino whaihuatanga ki te ārai atu i te momo Delta. Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: mamae uma ohorere hou hē o te manawa manawataki rerekē. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te tūnga kano ārai mate i raro i te pūnaha rama toru. Kāore e taea e ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū whakahaere te ārai atu i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te pakeke ki te kuhu atu mēnā kāore he Tohu Kano Ārai Mate. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5-11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Pakeke ake i te 18 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 3 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. Kei waenga i te 12 me te 18 tau te pakeke: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. I raro i te 12 tau te pakeke: e whakahaua ana kia 8 wiki te wā i waenganui i ngā pota. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . E kore koe e āhei ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kei raro koe i te 12 tau. Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpitihanga, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. I kitea tōna tino whaihuatanga ki te ārai atu i te momo Delta. Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: mamae uma ohorere hou hē o te manawa manawataki rerekē. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te tūnga kano ārai mate i raro i te pūnaha rama toru. Kāore e taea e ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū whakahaere te ārai atu i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te pakeke ki te kuhu atu mēnā kāore he Tohu Kano Ārai Mate. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere | International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku Pūkete Kowheori | My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Whakaritea tētahi My Health Account - mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Me whakarato hoki koe i tētahi o ēnei tuhinga e whai ake nei, kia whakaū ai mātou i tō tuakiri: He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account. Ka taea hoki e koe te takiuru mā te RealMe, he pae e āhei ai koe ki te whakauru i ngā ratonga tuihono maha mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna kotahi, ā, me te hāpono haumaru ko wai koe i runga ipurangi. Kia uru atu koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i ō pūkete kano ārai mate, me te whiwhi i te Kōkota Kano Ārai Mate, te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere rānei. Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Whakaritea tētahi My Health Account - mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Me whakarato hoki koe i tētahi o ēnei tuhinga e whai ake nei, kia whakaū ai mātou i tō tuakiri: He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account. Ka taea hoki e koe te takiuru mā te RealMe, he pae e āhei ai koe ki te whakauru i ngā ratonga tuihono maha mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna kotahi, ā, me te hāpono haumaru ko wai koe i runga ipurangi. Kia uru atu koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i ō pūkete kano ārai mate, me te whiwhi i te Kōkota Kano Ārai Mate, te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere rānei. Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku tohu ārai mate | My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taupānga Manatoko Tohu Ārai Mate o Aotearoa | NZ Pass Verifier app --- Section Separator --- Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: kua mōnehu te kōkota, tērā rānei kāore e taea te manatoko i te waehere QR. Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 --- Section Separator --- Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: kua mōnehu te kōkota, tērā rānei kāore e taea te manatoko i te waehere QR. Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā werohanga mō ngā tamariki | Vaccinations for children --- Section Separator --- Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā werohanga mō ngā tamariki | Vaccinations for children I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination --- Section Separator --- He mea tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. E rua ngā potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer me whiwhi te tamaiti hei tino ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka tukuna ngā potanga e rua kia 8 wiki i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga rongoā pēhi ārai mate nui tō tamaiti. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke, ā, me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka pā mai pea ētahi pānga kino māmā ki tō tamaiti i te 1—2 rā i muri i te whiwhi i tana kano ārai mate Pfizer. He mea noa tēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te ako tōna tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Kāore e tino roa te pānga mai o te nuinga o ngā pānga kino, ā, kāore he pānga o te nuinga ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kāore e pā mai he pānga kino ki tō tamaiti kei te pai tērā, kei te mahi tonu te kano ārai mate. mamae, pupuhi/whero rānei i te wāhi i weroa ngenge, te ruha rānei ānini o te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae hono hoki/rānei mātao/kirikā whakapairuaki whakamau papanga mātai, mākū hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti whakarite ka whakatā ia, ā, kia nui te inu wai whāngai paracetamol i te tuatahi, te ibuprofen rānei mēnā ka pā tonu mai ngā tohumate rapu tohutohu mai i tō mātanga hauora mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mēnā rānei ka kino ake ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Ka taea ngā pānga pāwera kino te pā mai engari he tino rerekē ēnei. Ka whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ēnei. Me kōrero atu ki tō kaiwero mēnā ka māuiui tō tamaiti, kei te māharahara rānei koe, i te mea he tere te pā mai o ngā pānga pāwera kino i muri i te kano ārai mate. Koinei te take me tirotiro tō tamaiti mō te 15 meneti i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate. He kino ake pea ētahi pānga kino, engari he mokorea, pēnei i te mate pāwera tino kino, te kakā o te manawa rānei (Myocarditis me te pericarditis). He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ētahi o ēnei tohumate hou ki tō tamaiti, me rapu āwhina hauora koe, otirā mēnā kāore e kore atu ēnei tohumate: ka kikī, taumaha, auhi, mamae rānei tō uma, kakī rānei ka uaua te hēhē, te mapu hau rānei he takarangi, āmaimai, nihinihi rānei he kakapa, he tere, he pātuki rānei te manawa, kei te 'tīpokapoka' rānei te āhua. He mea nui kia pūrongohia e koe ngā pānga ki ō tamariki whai muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā mātau whaiwhai i te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te pūrongo ngā pānga kino ki tō tamaiti i report.vaccine.covid19.govt.nz (external link) , me kōrero rānei ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te kōrero mō te pūrongo i ngā pānga kino. Ehara i te mea me mātua mōhio koe i ahu mai te pānga i te kano ārai mate hei tuku pūrongo. Ka whiwhi anō pea koe i tētahi karere patowaea i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai KOWHEORI-19 a tō tamaiti e tono ana kia whakaotihia e koe he rangahau poto mō ngā pānga. Mā te whakauru mai ka āwhina koe i a mātau kia whiwhi mōhio mō te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Kei a koe te tikanga mēnā ka whakauru mai ki te rangahau, ā, ka āhei koe ki te wehe atu ahakoa te wā. He koreutu te whakautu i te patowaea. Ka kitea he mōhiohio atu anō i Medsafe.govt.nz/COVID-safety-reporting/ (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio mō ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara tonu ōu mō te haumaru o tō tamaiti, me waea atu ki 111 , ā, me mātua whakamōhio atu i whiwhi tō tamaiti i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātau aromatawai i tōna tūāhua. Ka āwhina ngā kano ārai mate ki te tiaki i ngā tāngata nō ngā taipakeke katoa mai i ētahi o ngā mate maunoa maha, pērā i te mate karawaka, me te whurū. Me tiro mēnā kua whiwhi tō whānau i ngā kano ārai mate katoa mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Kāore he māharahara mō te wā ka whiwhi i ētahi atu kano ārai mate ehara i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te mate karawaka, mate repe pupuhi, rūpera; kāore koe e mate ki te hiki i ēnei kano ārai mate mō tētahi atu wā. Haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu mōhiohio. I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination [PDF, 218 KB] --- Section Separator --- He mea tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. E rua ngā potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer me whiwhi te tamaiti hei tino ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka tukuna ngā potanga e rua kia 8 wiki i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga rongoā pēhi ārai mate nui tō tamaiti. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke, ā, me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka pā mai pea ētahi pānga kino māmā ki tō tamaiti i te 1—2 rā i muri i te whiwhi i tana kano ārai mate Pfizer. He mea noa tēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te ako tōna tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Kāore e tino roa te pānga mai o te nuinga o ngā pānga kino, ā, kāore he pānga o te nuinga ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kāore e pā mai he pānga kino ki tō tamaiti kei te pai tērā, kei te mahi tonu te kano ārai mate. mamae, pupuhi/whero rānei i te wāhi i weroa ngenge, te ruha rānei ānini o te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae hono hoki/rānei mātao/kirikā whakapairuaki whakamau papanga mātai, mākū hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti whakarite ka whakatā ia, ā, kia nui te inu wai whāngai paracetamol i te tuatahi, te ibuprofen rānei mēnā ka pā tonu mai ngā tohumate rapu tohutohu mai i tō mātanga hauora mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mēnā rānei ka kino ake ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Ka taea ngā pānga pāwera kino te pā mai engari he tino rerekē ēnei. Ka whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ēnei. Me kōrero atu ki tō kaiwero mēnā ka māuiui tō tamaiti, kei te māharahara rānei koe, i te mea he tere te pā mai o ngā pānga pāwera kino i muri i te kano ārai mate. Koinei te take me tirotiro tō tamaiti mō te 15 meneti i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate. He kino ake pea ētahi pānga kino, engari he mokorea, pēnei i te mate pāwera tino kino, te kakā o te manawa rānei (Myocarditis me te pericarditis). He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ētahi o ēnei tohumate hou ki tō tamaiti, me rapu āwhina hauora koe, otirā mēnā kāore e kore atu ēnei tohumate: ka kikī, taumaha, auhi, mamae rānei tō uma, kakī rānei ka uaua te hēhē, te mapu hau rānei he takarangi, āmaimai, nihinihi rānei he kakapa, he tere, he pātuki rānei te manawa, kei te 'tīpokapoka' rānei te āhua. He mea nui kia pūrongohia e koe ngā pānga ki ō tamariki whai muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā mātau whaiwhai i te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te pūrongo ngā pānga kino ki tō tamaiti i report.vaccine.covid19.govt.nz (external link) , me kōrero rānei ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te kōrero mō te pūrongo i ngā pānga kino. Ehara i te mea me mātua mōhio koe i ahu mai te pānga i te kano ārai mate hei tuku pūrongo. Ka whiwhi anō pea koe i tētahi karere patowaea i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai KOWHEORI-19 a tō tamaiti e tono ana kia whakaotihia e koe he rangahau poto mō ngā pānga. Mā te whakauru mai ka āwhina koe i a mātau kia whiwhi mōhio mō te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Kei a koe te tikanga mēnā ka whakauru mai ki te rangahau, ā, ka āhei koe ki te wehe atu ahakoa te wā. He koreutu te whakautu i te patowaea. Ka kitea he mōhiohio atu anō i Medsafe.govt.nz/COVID-safety-reporting/ (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio mō ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara tonu ōu mō te haumaru o tō tamaiti, me waea atu ki 111 , ā, me mātua whakamōhio atu i whiwhi tō tamaiti i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātau aromatawai i tōna tūāhua. Ka āwhina ngā kano ārai mate ki te tiaki i ngā tāngata nō ngā taipakeke katoa mai i ētahi o ngā mate maunoa maha, pērā i te mate karawaka, me te whurū. Me tiro mēnā kua whiwhi tō whānau i ngā kano ārai mate katoa mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Kāore he māharahara mō te wā ka whiwhi i ētahi atu kano ārai mate ehara i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te mate karawaka, mate repe pupuhi, rūpera; kāore koe e mate ki te hiki i ēnei kano ārai mate mō tētahi atu wā. Haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu mōhiohio. --- Section Separator --- I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination [PDF, 218 KB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā werohanga mō ngā tamariki | Vaccinations for children Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ka āhei ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki tamariki ki te tiaki i ā rātau tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau mai i te KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuku i tētahi hanganga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer (mātai mate tamariki). Ko te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mō ngā tamariki he tauira kano ārai mate Pfizer tēnei mō ngā tamariki, ā, he iti ake te potanga me te rahinga. E rua ngā potanga me whiwhi ngā tamariki kia tino whakamarutia. E tūtohua ana kia 8 wiki i te iti rawa i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga tō tamaiti me ngā rongoā pēhi ārai mate. E tūtohu ana Te Manatū Hauora kia whiwhi kano ārai mate tō tamaiti hei tiaki i a ia me tō whānau, hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. He tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. I Aotearoa, ka whiwhi ngā tamariki i ngā kano ārai mate koreutu mō ngā mate 12, tae atu ki te mare heihei (pertussis), mate karawaka me te whakamemeke. Mā te tuku kano ārai mate ki ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau ka āwhina ki te tiaki i ērā o te whānau he nui ake te mōrea ki te KOWHEORI-19 nā ō rātau mate. He matawhawhati pea te mate KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ahakoa he māmā ake te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ngā tamariki, he rite ngā tohumate ki te whurū, ka pāngia kinotia ētahi tamariki e te mate, ā, ka uru pea ki te hōhipera. Ka pāngia hoki ngā tamariki ki ētahi mate tino rerekē pērā i te Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), ā, tērā pea ka uru ki te wāhanga whāomoomo. Ka pāngia anō ngā tamariki ki ngā pānga kino wā roa (e kīia ana ko te KOWHEORI mauroa), mai i ngā kēhi KOWHEORI-19 māmā hoki. Pērā anō i ngā pakeke, ki te pāngia tō tamaiti e te mate KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e ia te tuku mate ki ētahi atu. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke. Me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa. E tūtohua ana te kano ārai mate mō ngā tamariki he mate pāwera kai ō rātau. Engari kāore he kai, keratini, taherapa rānei i roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ko te pūtake anake kia kaua te tangata e whiwhi i tēnei kano ārai mate nā te pāwera mēnā i pā mai he pāwera kino ki a ia i mua (anaphylaxis) mai i tētahi potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer, he kai rānei nō roto o te kano ārai mate. I whakahaerehia anō taua tukanga whakaae taikaha mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer tamariki (mātai mate tamariki) pērā i ētahi atu kano ārai mate tamariki noa. Kāore i pokaina he whakamātautau haumanu, he karo rānei i roto i ngā whakamātautau i te haumarutanga. Me whakamānawa i tō tamaiti kia āta tau ia. Me mātua whakarite kua whiwhi kai me te inu ia. Me tirotiro mēnā kei te mau ia i ngā kākahu e māmā ai te kite, e wātea mai hoki tōna kikopuku. Mēnā kei te āhua āmaimai ia, ka āhei ia ki te heri atu i tētahi mea hei whakaware i a ia, pērā i tētahi taonga tākaro ngohengohe, he waea rānei. Mēnā he pānga ki ō tamariki i ētahi atu kano ārai mate i mua, me whakamōhio atu ki tō kaiwero, me kōrero rānei ki tō rata i mua i te wāhui, me kōrero rānei ki tētahi mātanga matatau nō te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 . Me whai tētahi matua, kaitiaki rānei i tō tamaiti ki tana wāhui hei pakeke tōtika me te tuku whakaae mōna kia whiwhi kano ārai mate ia. I te wāhui, kei te pakeke me te tamaiti te kaha ki te tuku i ngā pātai katoa e hiahia ana rāua. Pērā me ngā kano ārai mate katoa, kāore e kore ka mamae tō ringa o tō tamaiti, ā, ka whero, ka mamae, ka pupuhi rānei te wāhi i weroa. Ko ētahi atu pānga ka taea, ko te tikanga i roto i te kotahi, rua rā rānei, ko te: ānini māhunga kirikā (ka wera) whakapairuaki (kei te māuiui), ruaki, mate tikotiko rūhā auhi (kei te māuiui, pākikini, mamae hoki). Pā noa mai ēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Me whakahau kia whakatā, ā, kia nui tonu te inu wai. He tino rerekē ngā pānga kino mai i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer, ā, i te nuinga o te wā ka pā mai i muri tonu i te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei, ka whakanohotia kōrua ko tō tamaiti ki tētahi wāhi mātai kia tirotirohia ai ia e ngā kaimahi haumanu hei whakarite ka whiwhi maimoatanga hauora ia ki te tūpono pā mai tēnei. Ngā tohu pānga kino pea ko te: uaua o te hēhē pupuhi o te kanohi me te korokoro tere o te kapa o te manawa kino o te kirikā o te tinana pōātinitini me te ngoikore. Mēnā ka kite koe kua pāngia tō tamaiti e tētahi o ēnei tohumate, me wawe te whakamōhio atu ki ngā kaimahi haumanu. Mēnā kāore koe i tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate me waea atu ki 111 . He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ki te pā mai tētahi o ēnei tohumate ki tō tamaiti i ngā rā, ngā wiki rānei i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate, me wawe tonu te whiwhi āwhina hauora. Ngā tohumate o te myocarditis me te pericarditis: he auhi, taumaha, kikī haere, mamae rānei tōna uma he uaua o te hēhē he tere te kapa o te manawa, he kakapa, pātukituki rānei he takarangi, nihinihi, āmaimai rānei. Kāore he utu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te tangata. Mai i te 17 o Hānuere, ka āhei ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki tamariki rānei te haere ki tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate kuhu noa me ā rātau tamariki, te whakamahi rānei i te BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) hei whiwhi kano ārai mate me tō rātau kaiwhakarato hauora ake, whare rata rānei. Me mātua whakarite ka tīpakohia e koe te awhe taipakeke tika. Mēnā kei te hiahia koe ki te tāpui mō neke atu i te kotahi tamaiti, kāore rānei e taea e koe te tāpui tuihono, ka taea te waea atu ki COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 (8am–8pm, 7 rā i te wiki), ā, ka whakaritea e mātau te tāpuitanga mōu me te whakautu i ō pātai. E wātea ana ngā kaiwhakamāori. E wātea ana te Rōpū Tautoko Hauātanga i te Mane ki te Paraire, mai i te 8am ki te 8pm. Ka tautokona e rātau tō whānau me te tāpui i tētahi wāhui mōu. Ka taea anō e rātau te whakautu ō pātai mō ngā hiahia o tō tamaiti tae atu ki te wātea mai ki a rātau, ngā kōwhiringa ikiiki koreutu, ngā pānga rānei o te kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti. Waea ki 0800 28 29 26 ka pēhi 2 Patowaea koreutu ki 8988 Īmēra accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz Mō ētahi mōhiohio anō me ngā hono hei rangahau, haere ki: Unite Against COVID-19 Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri – Karawhiua.nz (external link) Te Manatū Mō Ngā Iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa (external link) Me kōrero ki tētahi kaitohutohu matatau kei te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 8am–8pm, 7 ra i te wiki. Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Ka āhei ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki tamariki ki te tiaki i ā rātau tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau mai i te KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuku i tētahi hanganga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer (mātai mate tamariki). Ko te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mō ngā tamariki he tauira kano ārai mate Pfizer tēnei mō ngā tamariki, ā, he iti ake te potanga me te rahinga. E rua ngā potanga me whiwhi ngā tamariki kia tino whakamarutia. E tūtohua ana kia 8 wiki i te iti rawa i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga tō tamaiti me ngā rongoā pēhi ārai mate. E tūtohu ana Te Manatū Hauora kia whiwhi kano ārai mate tō tamaiti hei tiaki i a ia me tō whānau, hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. He tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. I Aotearoa, ka whiwhi ngā tamariki i ngā kano ārai mate koreutu mō ngā mate 12, tae atu ki te mare heihei (pertussis), mate karawaka me te whakamemeke. Mā te tuku kano ārai mate ki ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau ka āwhina ki te tiaki i ērā o te whānau he nui ake te mōrea ki te KOWHEORI-19 nā ō rātau mate. He matawhawhati pea te mate KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ahakoa he māmā ake te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ngā tamariki, he rite ngā tohumate ki te whurū, ka pāngia kinotia ētahi tamariki e te mate, ā, ka uru pea ki te hōhipera. Ka pāngia hoki ngā tamariki ki ētahi mate tino rerekē pērā i te Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), ā, tērā pea ka uru ki te wāhanga whāomoomo. Ka pāngia anō ngā tamariki ki ngā pānga kino wā roa (e kīia ana ko te KOWHEORI mauroa), mai i ngā kēhi KOWHEORI-19 māmā hoki. Pērā anō i ngā pakeke, ki te pāngia tō tamaiti e te mate KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e ia te tuku mate ki ētahi atu. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke. Me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa. E tūtohua ana te kano ārai mate mō ngā tamariki he mate pāwera kai ō rātau. Engari kāore he kai, keratini, taherapa rānei i roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ko te pūtake anake kia kaua te tangata e whiwhi i tēnei kano ārai mate nā te pāwera mēnā i pā mai he pāwera kino ki a ia i mua (anaphylaxis) mai i tētahi potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer, he kai rānei nō roto o te kano ārai mate. I whakahaerehia anō taua tukanga whakaae taikaha mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer tamariki (mātai mate tamariki) pērā i ētahi atu kano ārai mate tamariki noa. Kāore i pokaina he whakamātautau haumanu, he karo rānei i roto i ngā whakamātautau i te haumarutanga. Me whakamānawa i tō tamaiti kia āta tau ia. Me mātua whakarite kua whiwhi kai me te inu ia. Me tirotiro mēnā kei te mau ia i ngā kākahu e māmā ai te kite, e wātea mai hoki tōna kikopuku. Mēnā kei te āhua āmaimai ia, ka āhei ia ki te heri atu i tētahi mea hei whakaware i a ia, pērā i tētahi taonga tākaro ngohengohe, he waea rānei. Mēnā he pānga ki ō tamariki i ētahi atu kano ārai mate i mua, me whakamōhio atu ki tō kaiwero, me kōrero rānei ki tō rata i mua i te wāhui, me kōrero rānei ki tētahi mātanga matatau nō te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 . Me whai tētahi matua, kaitiaki rānei i tō tamaiti ki tana wāhui hei pakeke tōtika me te tuku whakaae mōna kia whiwhi kano ārai mate ia. I te wāhui, kei te pakeke me te tamaiti te kaha ki te tuku i ngā pātai katoa e hiahia ana rāua. Pērā me ngā kano ārai mate katoa, kāore e kore ka mamae tō ringa o tō tamaiti, ā, ka whero, ka mamae, ka pupuhi rānei te wāhi i weroa. Ko ētahi atu pānga ka taea, ko te tikanga i roto i te kotahi, rua rā rānei, ko te: ānini māhunga kirikā (ka wera) whakapairuaki (kei te māuiui), ruaki, mate tikotiko rūhā auhi (kei te māuiui, pākikini, mamae hoki). Pā noa mai ēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Me whakahau kia whakatā, ā, kia nui tonu te inu wai. He tino rerekē ngā pānga kino mai i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer, ā, i te nuinga o te wā ka pā mai i muri tonu i te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei, ka whakanohotia kōrua ko tō tamaiti ki tētahi wāhi mātai kia tirotirohia ai ia e ngā kaimahi haumanu hei whakarite ka whiwhi maimoatanga hauora ia ki te tūpono pā mai tēnei. Ngā tohu pānga kino pea ko te: uaua o te hēhē pupuhi o te kanohi me te korokoro tere o te kapa o te manawa kino o te kirikā o te tinana pōātinitini me te ngoikore. Mēnā ka kite koe kua pāngia tō tamaiti e tētahi o ēnei tohumate, me wawe te whakamōhio atu ki ngā kaimahi haumanu. Mēnā kāore koe i tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate me waea atu ki 111 . He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ki te pā mai tētahi o ēnei tohumate ki tō tamaiti i ngā rā, ngā wiki rānei i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate, me wawe tonu te whiwhi āwhina hauora. Ngā tohumate o te myocarditis me te pericarditis: he auhi, taumaha, kikī haere, mamae rānei tōna uma he uaua o te hēhē he tere te kapa o te manawa, he kakapa, pātukituki rānei he takarangi, nihinihi, āmaimai rānei. Kāore he utu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te tangata. Mai i te 17 o Hānuere, ka āhei ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki tamariki rānei te haere ki tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate kuhu noa me ā rātau tamariki, te whakamahi rānei i te BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) hei whiwhi kano ārai mate me tō rātau kaiwhakarato hauora ake, whare rata rānei. Me mātua whakarite ka tīpakohia e koe te awhe taipakeke tika. Mēnā kei te hiahia koe ki te tāpui mō neke atu i te kotahi tamaiti, kāore rānei e taea e koe te tāpui tuihono, ka taea te waea atu ki COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 (8am–8pm, 7 rā i te wiki), ā, ka whakaritea e mātau te tāpuitanga mōu me te whakautu i ō pātai. E wātea ana ngā kaiwhakamāori. E wātea ana te Rōpū Tautoko Hauātanga i te Mane ki te Paraire, mai i te 8am ki te 8pm. Ka tautokona e rātau tō whānau me te tāpui i tētahi wāhui mōu. Ka taea anō e rātau te whakautu ō pātai mō ngā hiahia o tō tamaiti tae atu ki te wātea mai ki a rātau, ngā kōwhiringa ikiiki koreutu, ngā pānga rānei o te kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti. Waea ki 0800 28 29 26 ka pēhi 2 Patowaea koreutu ki 8988 Īmēra accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz Mō ētahi mōhiohio anō me ngā hono hei rangahau, haere ki: Unite Against COVID-19 Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri – Karawhiua.nz (external link) Te Manatū Mō Ngā Iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa (external link) Me kōrero ki tētahi kaitohutohu matatau kei te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 8am–8pm, 7 ra i te wiki. Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Locations of interest If you have been at a location of interest Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. --- Section Separator --- Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. --- Section Separator --- Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 March 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 254,056 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 254,056 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 8,107 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 8,107 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 2,518,035 Booster doses administered (18+) 2,518,035 Booster doses administered (18+) --- Section Separator --- Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 March 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 952 Cases in hospital 952 Cases in hospital 15,540 New community cases 15,540 New community cases 22 New cases at the border 22 New cases at the border 190,321 Active community cases 190,321 Active community cases --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 March 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and of COVID-19 related deaths. COVID-19 related deaths include: people whose cause of death was not COVID-19 but they had COVID-19 when they died people whose cause of death is still under investigation. COVID-19 current cases data | health.govt.nz (external link) 2 COVID-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours 2 COVID-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours 102 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 102 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 115 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths 115 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 March 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) 34,045 RATs in last 24 hours 34,045 RATs in last 24 hours 1,762 PCR tests in last 24 hours 1,762 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home News and data Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- This map shows the vaccination rates for areas around New Zealand. Type your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first, second or booster dose in your area, compared with the national average. --- Section Separator --- Age group Dose Ethnicity Map areas A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb — there are 2,156 in NZ. Territorial Authorities are our city councils and district councils — there are 67 in NZ. There are 20 District Health Boards (DHBs) in NZ. Boosters are for the 18+ population. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first, second or booster dose. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over N/A Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over N/A A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb — there are 2,156 in NZ. Territorial Authorities are our city councils and district councils — there are 67 in NZ. There are 20 District Health Boards (DHBs) in NZ. Boosters are for the 18+ population. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first, second or booster dose. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 897 updates 14 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 11 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 Mar 2022 Managed Isolation and Quarantine is beginning to scale down its operations as international travel starts back up. 09 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 09 Mar 2022 The isolation period for COVID-19 cases and their household contacts will be reduced from 10 to 7 days. 08 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 08 Mar 2022 Emergency ambulance services across New Zealand have recorded the highest ever call volumes to the 111 ambulance communications centres over the weekend. 07 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 07 Mar 2022 More Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) collection points are being established in some of our biggest cities to meet continued demand.
A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident.
A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020.
A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453.
Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453.
New Zealanders have rolled up their sleeves in droves as part of The Big Boost nationwide call to action – but we are not done yet. As predicted, Omicron cases are increasing across New Zealand and it is critical we get as many people as possible boosted in February to slow the spread of the virus and protect our communities. In response to the outbreak, we have accelerated the booster programme and asked New Zealanders to get their boosters as soon as they are due. The Big Boost Week ended on Wednesday and we saw 369,990 people making the most of extended vaccination centres opening hours, pop-up clinics and events around the country – meaning that more than 2 million New Zealanders in total have now been boosted. That is a significant contribution to the 748,351 people given boosters in the first 17 days of February, and means we are on track to administer over 1.25 million boosters for the month. If we keep this up, by the end of February we will have boosted around 77% of eligible New Zealanders. That is a good result, but we can do more – get your booster as soon as you are due. It is the best thing we can do to combat Omicron and protect ourselves, our whānau, and our communities. The evidence is clear that a booster dose provides a very high level of protection against severe disease or hospitalisation from the Omicron variant. The evidence also suggests the booster dose offers some protection against getting Omicron or transmitting it to others. Two doses was effective against Delta but you need the booster for Omicron. Notes: In February so far (1-17 February inclusive) there were 748,351 booster doses administered, an average of over 44,000 boosters per day. During Big Boost Week alone (9-16 February inclusive) there were 369,990 boosters administered. At the current daily rate, more than 1.25 million people will be boosted in February, taking the number of boosters given to a total of more than 2.5 million. At 28 February 2022, there will be 3,342,224 people eligible for their booster. As of 11.59pm on 17 February, 2,083,130 booster doses in total have been administered to New Zealanders.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- 19,566 new community cases 22 new cases identified at the border 373 cases in hospital 16,314 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 2,371,552 booster doses --- Section Separator --- Further increases in cases and hospitalisations are a reminder of the things we can do to slow the spread of Omicron. Getting vaccinated greatly reduces the chances you will get severely ill and require hospital care if you get COVID-19. Boosters offer a high level of protection against Omicron, so if it has been 3 months or more since your second dose of the vaccine, please get your booster. Yesterday, there were 23,465 booster doses administered. If you’re out and about, remember to wear a face mask. Face masks reduce the risk of a person both catching and spreading the virus. Finally, the Ministry of Health would like to remind everyone to self-report positive results for RATs through My Covid Record, so we understand the size of the outbreak. People who need help recording their result can also call 0800 222 478 . Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield President of the Royal New Zealand College of General Practitioners, Dr Samantha Murton. --- Section Separator --- 21,015 new community cases 12 new cases identified at the border 773 cases in hospital 4817 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 8,970 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- From today, the Ministry of Health is moving to a new approach to reporting deaths of people who have COVID-19. We will automatically report all deaths of people who die within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19. This is the approach used by the UK and many other countries. As of today, this number is 81. We will also be providing the following additional details that will include some deaths reported outside of the 28 day window: People for whom it is clear that COVID-19 is the cause of death. As of today, this number is 34. People who had (or were subsequently found to have) COVID-19 when they died but their cause of death was clearly not COVID-19 related. As of today, this number is 2. People whose cause of death is still under investigation e.g. it is being considered by the Coroner, but we know they had COVID-19 when they died. As of today, this number is 48. Over time, as more information is provided about some of the reported deaths, our website data will be updated to reflect that. Whenever new deaths are publicly reported, the Ministry will include a new total of deaths in its 1pm statements. As part of our new process, we are today reconciling the figures we have previously reported publicly – a total of 83 deaths - with the deaths of people who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID and who are in the national databases. As result, we are confirming 9 additional deaths, all of whom died within 28 days of having COVID-19. With 1 death announced in Bay of Plenty yesterday subsequently being found not to be COVID-19 related, the total number of deaths publicly reported to date is 91. Of the 9 deaths which are being reported today, 1 died yesterday in North Shore Hospital. The remaining 8 all died in the past fortnight: 4 in late February and 4 in March. 7 of the deaths were in Auckland and one in Waikato. 1 was in their sixties; 3 in their seventies; 2 in their eighties; 1 in their nineties and 1 over 100 years of age. We offer our sincere condolences to their families and whānau. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Chief Clinical Officer for the Northern Region Health Coordination Centre, Andrew Old Associate Chief Clinical Officer and Clinical Lead for the Vaccination Programme, Dr Anthony Jordan GP and co-clinical lead for the home isolation programme at Whānau HQ, Dr Christine McIntosh --- Section Separator --- 20,989 new community cases 23 new cases identified at the border 856 cases in hospital 4,614 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 7,863 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- We are today reporting the deaths of 7 people with COVID-19. Of these deaths, 5 occurred in the Auckland region, 1 in Waikato, and 1 in the Southern region. The total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths to date is now 98. Of the people who have died that we are announcing today, 1 person was in their fifties, 4 were in their 70s, 1 was their 80s, and 1 person was in their 90s. 4 were male and 3 were female. Out of respect for affected families, we will be making no further comment. Following the Government’s announcement on Wednesday that isolation periods would drop from 10 to 7 days, we wish to provide some further information to support people if they test positive for COVID-19 or are a Household Contact. If you test positive for COVID-19, you are required to isolate for 7 days. You do not need to be retested after your intial positive result. If you still have symptoms after 7 days, stay home until you feel better and then wait another 24 hours. Most people feel better after a week but if you are getting worse please do seek help. If you are a Household Contact and you have done a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on both day 3 and 7 of the isolation period of the first COVID-19 positive person in your house, and both tests are negative, you can leave isolation on day 8 if you are well. If you are a Household Contact and return a positive RAT result while isolating, you will need to isolate for a further 7 days and wait till 24 hours after you are symptom free. Other household members do not have to reset their isolation and can leave isolation on day 8, the same day as the first case can leave isolation, provided they have returned negative RATs results and are not symptomatic. If you’re a critical worker, and you have a person in your household who has tested positive for COVID-19, you may be able to continue working if you: are fully vaccinated do not have symptoms and, return a negative RAT before each shift or day of work. Your employer will be able to tell you if you are a critical worker and what you need to do. When not at work, you need to isolate like any other Household Contact as outlined above. Critical healthcare workers that are Household Contacts or cases have some additional exemptions. The key message for everyone is if you feel sick, stay at home. Exemptions for healthcare workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Transcript of the 4pm media conference --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Transcript of the 10:30am media conference
The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Minister of Finance Grant Robertson Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 16 August media conference [PDF, 187 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Ministry of Health Primary Care Lead, Dr Joe Bourne Ministry of Social Development Deputy Chief Executive, Viv Rickard. Watch the media conference here.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- 22,152 new community cases 8 new cases identified at the border 405 cases in hospital 20,086 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 18,970 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- It’s great to see more than 60% of eligible Māori across the motu have now received a booster dose. This milestone is an opportunity to celebrate the mahi of staff at vaccine clinics, health providers and iwi who have led the way to ensure Māori are well protected against COVID-19. As always, there’s still work to do. The Ministry of Health strongly encourages everyone who is eligible to get their booster dose, which will help protect themself and others in the community from Omicron. The booster dose greatly reduces the likelihood that you will become severely ill and require hospital care if you catch Omicron. If you are 18 years or older and had your second vaccination at least three months ago, please get your booster as soon as you can. Find a centre near you by visiting BookMyVaccine.nz or calling the Covid Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 for a whānau booking. Yesterday, 18,970 booster doses were administered. We’re also continuing to remind people to self-report positive results for Rapid Antigen Tests (RATS) through My Covid Record, to help us understand the size of the outbreak. People who need help recording their result can also call 0800 222 478. More than 80% of today’s 22,152 community cases were detected by a RAT. We would like to thank the tens of thousands of people who have self-reported their result. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 2:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the media conference | RNZ (external link)
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12 noon. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch livestream here.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Sir David Skegg Watch the livestream here.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Ministry of Health Primary Care Lead Dr Joe Bourne Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- 23,183 new community cases 11 new cases identified at the border 503 cases in hospital 20,346 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 17,963 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Further increases in cases and hospitalisations are a reminder of the things we can do to slow the spread of Omicron. Getting vaccinated greatly reduces the chances you will get severely ill and require hospital care if you get COVID-19. Boosters offer a high level of protection against Omicron, so if it has been three months or more since your second dose of the vaccine, please get your booster. Yesterday, there were 17,963 booster doses administered. If you’re out and about, remember to wear a mask. Masks reduce the risk of a person both catching and spreading the virus. We’ve seen strong uptake of rapid antigen tests (RATs) by people with symptoms or who are household contacts, by organisations that provide critical services, and across the health system to support delivering care safely. As announced this morning, if you are symptomatic or a household contact, you can now order RATs through the newly launched RAT requester site. You, or someone of your behalf, can collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint. Please only go to those sites that are listed as collection sites. Request RATs (external link) RAT collection sites | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) People can still access free RATs without an order via Community Testing Centres, but only for an eligible individual. RATs are also available for purchase in some retail stores now for people who are not unwell or household contacts but want a RAT for other reasons, such as for international travelling or for reassurance ahead of visiting vulnerable people. Yesterday, 3.6 million RATs arrived in the country, with 101 million confirmed for delivery this month. Another 3.5m RATs are being sent out to DHBs today, and yesterday 1.3m were sent out to Primary Health Organisation, which should be received for distribution to GPs over the weekend. GPs use RATs as part of the clinical consultation with patients and are not a general collection site. There are now 169 collection sites, 109 testing centres, and 26 providers supporting our priority population groups nationwide. And with the addition of participating pharmacies and GPs, there are now more than 500 access points for RATs, with the aim or reaching more than 1000. The Ministry wants to reassure people that we have enough RATs to help New Zealand through a widespread Omicron outbreak in the coming months. So, while we are anticipating continued high demand, our request is to, please, be patient. Do not order or request RATs from testing centre or collections sites unless you are unwell or a household contact. You can purchase RATs from a retailer if you are well but still want a RAT. Our frontline staff across the health sector are doing the best they can to help in a timely way. We also want to reiterate our thanks to COVID-19 testing staff for their part in New Zealand’s defence against the virus. Sadly, a person has passed away in a Bay of Plenty rest home. The person died of an unrelated medical condition while receiving palliative care and had tested positive for COVID-19. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers from the Northern Region Health Coordination Centre (NHRCC): Chief Clinical Officer Andrew Old Associate Chief Clinical Officer Dr Anthony Jordan Clinical Lead for Home Isolation and Primary Care Response Dr Christine McIntosh --- Section Separator --- 22,527 new community cases 8 new cases identified at the border 562 cases in hospital 19,544 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 15,195 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- The increasing number of cases and hospitalisations is a reminder of the importance getting vaccinated and boosted. Being boosted greatly reduces the chances you will get severely ill and require hospital care if you get COVID-19. Boosters offer a high level of protection against Omicron, so if it has been three months or more since your second dose of the vaccine, please get your booster. Yesterday, there were 15,195 booster doses administered. If you’re out and about, remember to wear a mask. Masks reduce the risk of a person both catching and spreading the virus. The Ministry is also seeing reports of people who are symptomatic that are testing negative for COVID-19 in their initial test but later returning a positive test. Our advice is that even if you receive a negative test, you should stay at home until well and retest if symptoms persist or worsen. More than 130,000 orders were placed through RAT requester site for free RATs yesterday, covering more than half a million people, or about 2 million tests. The Ministry wants to reassure people that we have enough RATs to help New Zealand through a widespread Omicron outbreak in the coming months. Over the past week, 8.8m million RATs have been distributed. Over the weekend, another 8m RATs are expected to arrive in the country with another 99 million confirmed for delivery this month. There are 177 collection sites, 99 testing centres, and 30 providers supporting our priority population groups nationwide. So, while we are anticipating continued high demand, our request is to, please, be patient and kind to each other and staff. They are working as hard as they can. If you are symptomatic or a household contact, you can order RATs through the newly launched RAT requester site. You, or someone of your behalf, can collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint. Please only go to those sites that are listed as collection sites. The  priority for COVID-19 response for free RATs remains those who are symptomatic or a household contact. Please do not order or request RATs from testing centre or collections sites unless you are unwell or a household contact. International travel pre-departure testing is not covered under the public health response. If you are well, you can still purchase RATs from one of a growing number of retailers which stock them. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Group Manager Data and Digital, Michael Dreyer --- Section Separator --- 23,894 new community cases 19 new cases identified at the border 757 cases in hospital 4108 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 10,450 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- As the outbreak progresses, we are continuing to see a larger proportion of unvaccinated cases in hospital with COVID-19. Just 3% of eligible people aged 12 and over in New Zealand have had no doses of the vaccine. However, of those aged over 12 in Northland and Auckland hospitals with COVID-19 for whom we have vaccination data recorded, 19.4% have had no doses of the vaccine. Even early in the Omicron outbreak, the figures show that, based on the data available, unvaccinated people are significantly over-represented in the current hospitalisation data. The numbers send a clear message: getting vaccinated will help to keep you out of hospital if you catch COVID-19 and could save your life. There have been some reports of people with COVID-19 undertaking rapid antigen testing in order to return a negative result so they can leave isolation. Everyone who tests positive for COVID-19 and their household contacts, needs to isolate from the community to help slow the spread of the virus. However, it’s not necessary to then return a negative test once your isolation period is over in order to return to work or school. It’s also important to note that some people may continue to test positive on a RAT for some time, even once they are past their infectious stage or have recovered. This guidance does not extend to those Household Contacts covered by the Close Contact Exemption Scheme who are able to continue going to work during their isolation period so long as they return a negative test before work each day. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins --- Section Separator --- 22,454 new community cases 12 new cases identified at the border 742 cases in hospital 4719 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 9,266 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- There are 8,529 new cases being reported in the Auckland Region today, representing 56% of the total new cases – down from 61% of total new cases a week ago. This number is still high and the outbreak is still very active in the Auckland region, but numbers have levelled off there in the last week. We will know in the next few days if this signals that the outbreak has peaked there. The number of people in hospital with COVID-19 remains steady, with 19 people now in an intensive care unit (ICU) or high dependency unit (HDU). This represents 2.5% of current hospitalisations, around one fifth of the rate seen at the peak of the Delta outbreak when 13% of hospitalised people required ICU or HDU care. Once again, most cases today are a result of people reporting positive rapid antigen tests (RATs). It is very important for people to record positive RAT results, either through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . Thank you to all those who have tested and reported their results to date. Reporting your RATs results Sadly, we are today reporting the deaths of 4 people with COVID-19. Of these people, 2 deaths occurred in Lakes, 1 in Tairāwhiti, and 1 in Counties Manukau. Our thoughts and condolences are with the patients’ family and friends. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
As of midnight last night 29,851 applications have been made for the payment. At 1pm today the first businesses received their payments — a total of $117.5 million paid to 24,044 businesses. The new payment has been put in place to provide additional certainty for businesses struggling with the Omicron outbreak. --- Section Separator --- A business is eligible for the support if they can show a 40% or greater drop in a 7-day period since 16 February this year compared against a typical 7-day period in 1 of 2 timeframes. The first time period is 5 January 2022 to 15 February 2022 and the alternative option of 5 January 2021 to 15 February 2021. The alternative option covers a period when all of New Zealand was at Alert Level 1. The comparator period is the same approach as used for the Resurgence Support Payment taken up by thousands of businesses last year. This first payment will remain open for applications for at least 6 weeks, so even if a business is not eligible right now, they may find they become eligible during this 6-week period. Apply for the COVID-19 Support Payment | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The payment remains the same, with eligible businesses receiving $4,000 per business plus $400 per full-time employee, capped at 50 FTEs or $24,000, the same rate as the most recent Transition Payment. It will be available on a fortnightly basis for 6 weeks, meaning 3 payments in total, each of which needs to be applied for separately. This reflects the international experience that the peak of the Omicron outbreak should pass after about 6 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor the situation and have the option to extend the payment if this is necessary. --- Section Separator --- Other support including the new Small Business Cashflow Loans Scheme top up loan will be available later this month. Financial support during COVID-19
The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. --- Section Separator --- The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database.
"Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. To isolate at their usual home. To not go out to work, and remain isolated, until they are contacted by their national contact tracing service, and they receive further direction. This direction applies to the following people: any employees or contractors of 2 employers: Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. any visitors to those workplaces in the last 14 days, and any people who ordinary live with those employees, or contractors, or visitors. If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health
At its peak on Sunday, St John and Wellington Free Ambulance recorded 2,322 calls for help nationwide into its ambulance communications centres in Auckland, Wellington, and Christchurch — about 100 more calls a day than the previous record. With high staff absentees due to illness across the ambulance communications centres and call volumes expected to remain high, anyone calling 111 for an ambulance can expect a delay before their call is answered. With the increase in demand impacting ambulance staff in the 111 communications centres and on the frontline, St John and Wellington Free Ambulance are asking the public to only phone 111 for an ambulance in genuine emergencies. If people are feeling unwell, or need health advice, they should call their regular health provider — for example, their GP, Healthline, or use our website and consider alternative methods of transport to medical facilities for non-urgent conditions. If it is an emergency, people should continue to dial 111 for an ambulance. There have been reports of record wait times of up to 7.5 minutes for a 111 call to be answered. But St John and Wellington Free Ambulance are asking callers who need an ambulance urgently to stay on the line and a call handler will respond as soon as possible. An emergency vehicle will be dispatched urgently to patients with an immediately life-threatening condition but patients whose condition is not immediately life-threatening may have to wait for an ambulance or a paramedic or nurse may phone back to provide health advice over the phone. Our emergency call handlers have noted a rise in the number of people calling for non-urgent matters and people who do not need an ambulance. For example, we have had people phoning us with a headache, wanting advice and people asking us how to get a COVID-19 test. We know the current Omicron outbreak in the community is causing anxiety and some people’s COVID-19 symptoms are making them feel miserable. We understand the discomfort and uncertainty can be stressful but most people with COVID-19 can safely manage their health at home without needing an ambulance. Anyone with severe chest pain or difficulty breathing, or other medical, or accident-related emergency should not hesitate to call 111. These are the types of serious incidents we want to ensure our resources are available to respond to during these times of intense demand.
If you are symptomatic or a Household Contact, you can now order rapid antigen tests (RATs) through the newly launched RAT requester website. Request a RAT (external link) "It’s one of a range of ways we are make testing more readily available for those who need it," says Jo Pugh, Acting Group Manager of COVID-19 Testing and Supply at the Ministry of Health. "We have a good supply of RATs to meet demand during Phase 3 of our Omicron response. "On top of the 15 million that arrived last week, 2.6 million RATs arrived on Tuesday, followed by a delivery of 5.1 million RATs on Wednesday. "These new RATs are flowing through the supply chain and into collection sites where they can be accessed by anyone assessed as needing one." There are 146 collection sites, 106 testing centres, and 21 providers supporting our priority population groups nationwide. And with the addition of participating pharmacies and doctors, there are now more than 500 access points for RATs, with additional sites continuing to be opened across the motu. "The ability to place an order online ensures that the process is smoother when people go to collect them. It also means that the whole whānau don’t need to queue up at the testing centre when one person in the household gets sick, because you’ll be able to collect RATs for everyone in your household," says Jo Pugh. "People can still access free RATs without an order via Community Testing Centres, but only for an eligible individual. "RATs are also available for purchase in some retail stores now for people who are not unwell or household contacts but want a RAT for other reasons. "We want to make sure that getting tested is as easy as possible for people — it is an important part of our strategy to slow the spread of the virus to keep the pressure off hospitals. "The website also contains features to prevent people from ordering too many RATs to ensure that everyone who needs one can get one. These include order limits by address and phone number." Jo Pugh says doctors will also be using RATs as part of clinical consultations, where appropriate. They will not generally be distributing to the public outside this regime. "By the end of March, we expect to build up the number of places where RATs are available to 1000 sites around the country, so the majority of New Zealanders can access a free RAT within 20 minutes driving distance. The Ministry of Health is also exploring options to deliver RATs to those to order them. The tool is a timely initiative following large shipments of RATs into the country, says Jo Pugh. "In the past 7 days, more than 7.7 million RATs have been dispatched from our central supply. And DHBs are working hard to push them out to the system. "Increased use of RATs will ease some of the pressure on our laboratories over the next 3 to 6 weeks, while helping to ensure critical services and supply chains remain operational, our most vulnerable communities are protected, and our economy keeps moving." Requesting RATs on the requester site is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. People will need to have access to a mobile phone to validate their order. You can order the test kits from the website requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) You can call 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Where to collect RATs | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) For people are not unwell or a Household Contact but want to get a RAT for other purposes, such as to visit an elderly relative, there are retail options now, including the Chemist Warehouse and Countdown. So far, more than 9 million RATs have been distributed. This includes: more than 3 million RATs to DHBs and community collection sites 1.3 million to Primary Health Organisations more than 1 million for aged care more than 800,000 to doctors and Urgent Care more than 600,000 to Pharmacies more than 650,000 RATs to first responders and other government agencies.
The Government is standing up additional support to help people and whānau who have to self-isolate access the services they need as Omicron cases start to ramp up and more New Zealanders are affected by the virus. With Omicron cases increasing it is important whānau have the support they need to self-isolate and stop the spread of the virus. In recent weeks we have seen an over 60 percent increase in people with no existing MSD relationship needing support, so it is timely for us to be increasing the welfare support provided through the Care in Community approach. As at 6 February 2022, MSD has received 7,911 referrals under the Care in the Community welfare support response. MSD is currently supporting 1,823 of those referrals as they are still within their self-isolation period. With more cases every day we know the number of whānau needing support will only increase. While the vast majority of people who have to self-isolate will not require support, we know for some whānau this will be a difficult time and that there will be need for extra assistance. The Care in the Community welfare approach is already responding effectively to meet the needs of people and whānau while in self-isolation. Today’s boost will help provide stability and continuity for them and their whānau, as well as social service organisations and community providers working hard to serve their community. MSD currently funds 303 Community Connectors who work alongside vulnerable whānau to help them access the support they need while isolating. With cases growing, especially in lower socio economic areas, we are now funding an additional 197 Connectors to bring the total to 500. This boost in support sits alongside our three-phase response to Omicron, and recognises the need to adapt our approach to the Care in Community model. The Omicron variant has increased pressure on foodbanks, social service organisations and community providers. That is why this boost in support will not only come as welcome relief but it will ensure they’re able to manage increased demand. Food continues to be the most identified need for people isolating and is the most requested hardship grant provided by MSD making up 67 per cent of all grants. That’s why we are ramping up support to food banks and other food providers. There are around 150 social service organisations and 225 food banks and community food organisations across the motu who are providing crucial support to people and whānau. They have played a huge part in cushioning the impact of the pandemic on whānau, and will continue to play a key role in helping us respond to the Omicron variant. As part of the Care in the Community welfare approach, we are committed to ensuring that we are future-proofing both the agency and community workforces which is why MSD has developed a workforce strategy. This is integral in making sure there is sufficient capacity and continuity to support our welfare response. At the heart of our Government’s welfare response to COVID-19, is ensuring people and whānau can self-isolate safely and have their welfare needs supported.
Our young people’s wellbeing is at the centre of everything we do. Protecting our schooling workforce by making medical-grade masks available in schools and kura, on top of the requirement that they are vaccinated, is core to this. One of the best things we can do to keep staff and students well is to isolate positive cases and Household Contacts to prevent onward transmission in schools. The Government will continue to support schools and kura to use hybrid learning and distance learning to do this. But we also know there are some scenarios where children must be at school and early learning. These are when their parents have to go to work, and there is not suitable care at home for them. --- Section Separator --- In those cases, the Ministry of Education is ensuring all of its regional offices will have a supply of rapid antigen tests to hand. There are now almost 700,000 tests available for schools and early learning services to access as needed across the network. Rapid antigen tests should only be used if all teachers and staff are either positive or required to isolate and there is not a suitable person who can supervise children on site at a school or kura. The same applies for early learning services. There is risk involved in a person who has been exposed to COVID-19 returning to work with children, so school and early learning leaders should think through carefully the use of rapid antigen tests for this purpose. The Government wants to ensure schools are supported through the Omicron peak and maintain a safe environment for students on site. RATs are available for schools and early learning services to access if they register under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme, in order to supervise students who need to be on site. Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) Schools need to register with the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) and then contact their regional office which will supply RATs for teaching staff. As they are approximately 80% effective, RATs should only be used as a last resort, once all other options for continuing teaching and learning have been exhausted. This includes using relief teachers, non-teaching staff or otherwise qualified people to supervise children who must be on site. --- Section Separator --- The Government is helping our schooling workforce to stay safe and well by making sure they have a good supply of face masks for the weeks and months ahead. The evidence tells us that wearing face masks will help slow the spread of Omicron, and we want to see our children and young people get as much on-site learning as possible this year. Seven million face masks are already available and being distributed for the 100,000 strong schooling workforce throughout the country. The Ministry of Education has ordered 36 million more to bolster supplies as needed. School staff are required to wear medical-grade face masks when working with young people indoors in Year 4 and up, and students also in those year groups are required to wear face masks when indoors. The Government is also providing face masks as a backstop for students. We know most families will have their own preferences, and there is more flexibility for young people around the types of face masks that can be used. But it is important schools have some in reserve for those situations where a student turns up without one, or their face mask is damaged.
This extra support is in addition to the Care in the Community boost the Government announced last week to help all families who need to self-isolate, as well as the social service organisations and community providers working hard to support them. Omicron is likely to disproportionately affect Māori and Pasifika communities, and the Government is committed to making sure vulnerable whanau received the support and care they deserve. With Omicron cases increasing, it is important whānau have the support they need to self-isolate and stop the spread of the virus. Using the $140 million funding, 160 Māori and Pacific health providers will together support Māori and Pacific households throughout Aotearoa. The focus of this current response is to enable Māori health providers to scale up their efforts, to support the Whānau Ora Commissioning Agencies to directly get resources to the people most in need, and for the Māori Communities COVID Fund to support community agencies in complementary ways. We have seen how the rapid response by our Māori health and community providers works fast and effectively. Their models of care have been crucial in the government’s COVID-19 response for their own communities. Māori providers have shown their strength and agility when dealing with previous outbreaks, and this investment will enable them to deliver immediate, flexible, holistic support where it’s needed most. For example, the Māori Communities COVID-19 Fund, which goes directly to Māori providers, including iwi, supported the acceleration of Māori vaccination rates, which increased from 69% to 90% for first dose in just 3.5 months. Minister for Māori Crown Relations Kelvin Davis said that since the COVID-19 outbreak the Government has acted to ensure New Zealanders are supported to respond to the threats on our people and economy. We need to continue approaches that best look after our people, so they are prepared in the face of Omicron. The investment will help Pacific health providers, particularly those outside the northern region, scale up the services they already provide to Pacific communities. Funding will go towards supporting, their workforce resources including vaccination. This investment is innovative, comprehensive, and Pacific-focused, allowing Pacific Peoples to prepare for the next phase of COVID-19 and to respond and rebuild in the aftermath of Omicron.
The move, which is part of the Ministry of Health’s planned testing strategy, follows RATs being rolled out to community testing centres in Waikato, Bay of Plenty, and Southern yesterday to be used in conjunction with PCR tests in those centres. RATS will be rolled out to community testing centres across the country this week. The testing centre will determine which test (PCR or RAT) is best for you. In Auckland, if people feel uncomfortable doing a RAT or a staff member identifies it as being appropriate, they may still get a PCR test. It was anticipated that as the outbreak grows, more people would have COVID-19 and there would be more close contacts who need to be tested. The increased use of RATs in Phase 2 and Phase 3 of our response will relieve pressure on the PCR testing and reserve it for those who are unwell and more susceptible to the effects of COVID-19. The new testing regime in Auckland will mean symptomatic people and/or asymptomatic close contacts whose RAT is positive will be considered a case and do not need to be verified through a PCR test. This will further relieve pressure on the system. This change will also be rolled out to other centres. After testing, people will need to record their result in My Covid Record, as well as advise their employer. If you cannot access My Covid Record, then they should call 0800 222 478 . Although there are still significant global supply constraints, we have secured the delivery of enough RATs to help New Zealand through a widespread Omicron outbreak in the coming months. There are currently 6.9 million RATs in the system, with around 14.7 million expected by the end of the month. The growing outbreak across the country has resulted in laboratories no longer being able to pool their PCR testing capacity, which had previously helped reduce pressure in areas with high case numbers. There is a current baseline capacity of around 31,000 PCR tests per day. --- Section Separator --- When you should get a test Rapid antigen tests (RATs)
The Ministry of Health will today email a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass to a small group of people waiting for the individual assistance needed to get their pass. The temporary exemption is a record of the individual’s request for assistance and has a unique identifier. It can be shown to businesses and organisations that require a My Vaccine Pass. It is valid until 11:59pm on 14 December 2021. More than 95% of people who requested a My Vaccine Pass have received their pass and are ready for New Zealand to move to the traffic light system on Friday. However there are currently around 70,000 requests for assistance, including people who need to add international vaccinations to their New Zealand record, people who need their name changed, and people whose records have other errors that need to be corrected. While this represents a small percentage of the 3 million My Vaccine Passes that have been issued to date, it is important these individuals are not unfairly disadvantaged when New Zealand moves to the Covid Protection Framework tonight. The temporary exemption is a pragmatic measure in response to the unprecedented demand our call centres are facing. We have scaled up our processing team significantly, but it is likely that not every request will be able to be resolved by tomorrow. If you are waiting to hear back from our call centre or service desk, keep an eye on your email including your junk folder. If your My Vaccine Pass is not available today, you will get an exemption email tonight. Over the next few days we will also be phoning people who have outstanding requests with us but who have not provided an email address. The fastest and easiest way to get your My Vaccine Pass is via mycovidrecord.health.nz. People can also obtain assistance in getting their My Vaccine Pass from participating pharmacies, general practices, hauora, and DHB vaccination clinics. We recommend people call ahead or check healthpoint.nz or the individual organisation’s website. Get your My Vaccine Pass We will continue to have surge capacity in our call centres and wider processing team through the weekend and early next week. If you need to contact our call centre, we want to hear from you but please be patient. Our staff are working hard to help people generate their My Vaccine Pass as quickly as possible. My Vaccine Pass, which is an official record of a person’s COVID-19 vaccination status, will help people access places within New Zealand that require proof of vaccination under the new COVID Protection Framework. The CPF will go live at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021.
COVID-19 cases and Household Contacts to isolate for a week Two negative rapid antigen tests required for household contacts 250,000 Novavax vaccines here, people can book from tomorrow. We remain committed to reducing the spread of Omicron to protect our health system and each other. However high case numbers and household contacts, and the current 10 day isolation requirement, is having a wider impact on many parts of our lives. There needs to be a balance between effectively controlling the outbreak and the flow-on effect for business and essential goods and services such as transport and food supply. The most up to date public health advice is that there is a decline in infectiousness of Omicron over time, and that in most cases transmission occurs within 7 days. Our primary objective is to stop the chain of transmission as much as possible to manage the spread of Omicron. 7 days isolation will break the vast majority of potential transmissions, while ensuring people can get back to work quicker and therefore reducing the impact on business operations.” The change will come into effect from 11:59pm Friday 11 March. Household Contacts will need to have a rapid antigen test at day 3 and day 7 of their isolation period. If they become symptomatic they should also get a test, and if the result is positive, they are required to isolate for seven days from that point. If a person is isolating and still has symptoms after 7 days, they are advised to stay home until 24 hours after symptoms resolve. We urge everyone to make sure they report their rapid antigen test result on My Covid Record, even if it is negative, so we can understand transmission within households and how the outbreak is spreading through communities. The reduction in the isolation period follows similar changes overseas and increasing evidence that people are most likely to transmit the virus earlier in their infectious period. This evidence also shows that the risk of reinfection within the first three months after someone has Omicron is very low. For this reason, recovered cases will no longer need to self-isolate if they become a household contact within 90 days after having the virus. This is an increase from the current 28 days. Under the Red setting of the COVID-19 Protection Framework there are additional public health measures in place that reduce the risk of onwards infection. These include limits on the sizes of gatherings, wearing face masks and physically distancing. We urge people to follow these guidelines to continue to protect our vulnerable friends and whānau. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders awaiting the arrival of Novavax to get vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to make an appointment online or by phone from tomorrow. A shipment of more than 250,000 Novavax COVID-19 vaccines (Nuvaxovid) has arrived in New Zealand and preparations are well advanced for some vaccination centres to be able to offer it next week. Novavax will be available for people aged over 18. It requires 2 doses, with a 3 week gap. It has not been approved as a booster dose. While the Pfizer vaccine remains the preferred COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand, Novavax is now available for those people who would prefer, or require, an alternative. People are able to book a Novavax vaccine through BookMyVaccine (external link) or by calling 0800 28 29 26 from Thursday 10 March, with the first vaccine appointments available at a limited number of sites from Monday 14 March. About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link)
Another 10 million will arrive over the weekend, bringing our total supply of RATs in the country to more than 22 million by Monday. RATs will increasingly become the primary testing method in the community with daily case numbers expected to hit 10,000 very soon. These tests will soon be shipped to community testing centres, GPs and pharmacies right across New Zealand. Businesses who need them as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme can also access them. Users who take a RAT will get their results within 20 minutes which will help identify cases sooner, reduce testing wait times and minimise disruption to business and ensure critical services and infrastructure workforce can continue to keep New Zealand operating. Despite significant global constraints, we have secured enough RATs to ensure that anyone who needs a test can get one throughout the Omicron outbreak. We have orders in place for 180 million RATs over the next 6 months. In Phase 3, PCR tests will be used in hospitals, aged residential care facilities and GPs can order a PCR if they think it’s necessary.
The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: oversight of all processes within the facilities provision of testing enforcement of rules logistical supply chains such as PPE coordination of relevant agencies standing up of new facilities continued oversight of repatriation flights accountability for those people who are in charge of each facility. “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: end to end induction process general security and safety of travellers provision of health services; and standardisation of procedures including COVID testing and screening. “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb.
The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: increased security for transferring returnees to managed isolation facilities the standardisation of procedures across all facilities The introduction of better information for returnees — from flight boarding through to entry into New Zealand and their exit from managed isolation. Better information to communities where those facilities are located. Strengthening of demand forecasting, reporting functions and coordination between agencies. Health responses include: more staff in facilities improved model of care — including taking into account issues like mental health and addiction issues more clinical oversight to ensure a consistent quality of service in facilities monitoring to ensure there is consistency across facilities. “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] --- Section Separator --- At departure airport. Check in for flight — information on which town passenger will complete managed isolation in is provided On flight to New Zealand — passengers informed by PA of the town they will complete managed isolation in (whole flight goes to same town). On landing at the international terminal: Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). On landing at domestic terminal: All passengers on the flight are transferred into buses airside. Passengers wear PPE and practise physical distancing on the bus journey. On arrival at managed isolation facility Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Routine during stay in a managed isolation facility Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Specific activities Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. On departure Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs. Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs.
With New Zealand now reopening to the world without the requirement to isolate for most, there is a significantly reduced demand for MIQ. This of course means that we no longer need the number of facilities we currently have. By the end of June, 28 of the current 32 facilities will leave the MIQ network and return to being hotels. Many staff, who have done an incredible and tireless job over the last two years, have already begun going back to their roles in the health, defence and police workforces. Already over 300 healthcare workers and nurses and over 230 police have returned to frontline duties, and over 600 defence personnel involved in the MIQ response will now return to their units. MBIE is working with the remainder of its workforce and with employers, to help staff as we work through this period. With many sectors experiencing workforce shortages we are confident there are opportunities for people to be redeployed into work elsewhere. MIQ workers have been at the front line of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, and they have made considerable personal sacrifices to make sure the wider community is safe. They have helped almost 230,000 people return to New Zealand and helped care for more than 4,400 people who got COVID-19 in the community and isolated in MIQ facilities. Our staff and our facilities have been the front line in our defence that has by and large kept COVID-19 out of the country while we got vaccinated and built up our immunity to the virus. MIQ did the job it was set up for and put us in an enviable position to the world. None of this is to say that the system did not have an enormous impact on families and businesses. It did. And the cost in many cases was profound. MIQ meant that not everyone could come home when they wanted to. But it also meant that COVID-19 could not come in when it wanted to, either. Rydges Auckland will be the first facility to leave the network. Its contract comes to a natural end on 30 April and it will begin operating as a hotel again from mid-May. Conversations with other facilities are ongoing, and further details will be made public in due course. A small number of hotels will remain part of the system while the Government works through what might be needed in terms of a national quarantine capacity in the future. This could include retaining hotels or purpose-built facilities. The Government will receive formal advice on this later in 2022. --- Section Separator --- 228,381 people have returned to New Zealand through MIQ. Average recorded stay was 12.97 days. In the past year (from 1 March 2021 - 28 February 2022) 112,181 people have returned through MIQ. There were 1,454,987 nights spent. And 4,364,962.71 meals served.
We are aware that there are a number of businesses that had a very quiet January/early February this year, and believe that they will not be eligible under the criteria of the CSP, particularly those in the hospitality sector. We have been working with business to understand this situation and, as we have at other times during the pandemic, we have responded by making changes to ensure we support viable but vulnerable businesses to get through this difficult situation. There will now be 2 time periods against which you can compare your current revenue to be eligible for the payment. The original period announced on Monday (5 January 2022 to 15 February 2022) and an alternative option of 5 January 2021 to 15 February 2021. The alternative option covers a period when all of New Zealand was at Alert Level 1. Businesses have told us that this additional option will provide greater certainty and cashflow. The comparator period is the same approach as used for the Resurgence Support Payment taken up by thousands of businesses last year. A business is eligible if they can show a 40 percent or greater drop in a 7-day period since 16 February this year compared against a typical seven day period in one of the timeframes above. Inland Revenue will make the necessary changes to its system to allow applications by businesses under this additional revenue comparison period. This is expected to be completed and available for use from 14 March. Businesses will be able to use this option to apply for each of the 3 payments. Businesses can still apply for the CSP using the original criteria announced on Monday, with applications for the first payment open on February 28, with payments starting from March 1. The first payment will be open for application for at least 6 weeks, so even if a business is not eligible right now, they may find they become eligible during this 6-week period. The payment remains the same, with eligible businesses receiving $4000 per business plus $400 per full-time employee, capped at 50 FTEs or $24,000, the same rate as the most recent Transition Payment. It will be available on a fortnightly basis for 6 weeks, meaning 3 payments in total, each of which needs to be applied for separately. This reflects the international experience that the peak of the Omicron outbreak should pass after about 6 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor the situation and have the option to extend the payment if this is necessary.
The Government has been monitoring the impact of the COVID Protection Framework on businesses and the economy. With the settings of the framework, most businesses can open and operate relatively normally, even at red. We can see that the majority of the economy is operating close to normal, but in some sectors, like hospitality and events, there has been a significant drop-off in business. There are a range of reasons for this, but it is clear that the impact is putting a number of viable businesses at risk of not being able to operate. Each COVID Support Payment will be $4000 per business plus $400 per full-time employee, capped at 50 FTEs or $24,000. This is the same rate as the most recent Transition Payment. Applications for the first payment open on February 28 , with payments starting from March 1. It will be available on a fortnightly basis for 6 weeks, with 3 payments in total. This reflects the international experience that the peak of the Omicron outbreak should pass after about 6 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor the situation and have the option to extend the payment if this if necessary. We have set a higher threshold in terms of revenue loss than previous support in order to target those most affected. Firms must show a 40 percent drop in 7 consecutive days within the 6 weeks prior to the shift to Phase 2 of the Omicron response on February 15, compared to 7 days after that date. We looked closely at whether we could offer sector-specific packages, but the definition of who is in what sector, and the need for cashflow to be provided quickly meant that was not a feasible option to reach the most affected. Changes are also being made to the Small Business Cashflow Loans Scheme to increase the amount of funding available to eligible businesses through the introduction of a ‘top up’ loan. The top up loan will allow those firms that have already accessed a loan to draw down an additional $10,000 with a new repayment period of 5 years and the first 2 years being interest free. Cabinet has also agreed to remove the first 2 years of accrued base interest from all borrowers who have, or will, take out a loan under the scheme. This change will mean interest will only start accruing at the beginning of year 3. We are also extending the Commissioner of Inland Revenue’s ability to apply flexibility for tax payment dates and terms to assist firms with cashflow pressures. Any businesses struggling to pay tax because of the impacts of COVID should log on to myIR to see if they can delay starting payments to a later date, or if any part of the tax could be written off. IR can help with both GST and provisional tax due.
At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1
What we have learned from the overseas evidence and experience is this virus is more infectious and easier to pass on than other variants but overall seems to be having a slightly milder effect on people. This has led to people treating it like the flu and thankfully for most people it won’t be serious. However, the more people with the infection the greater the likelihood of passing it on to those who we really need to protect, such as people who are immunocompromised and older people, who may become very unwell. While almost everyone will be exposed to this variant it does not mean they will be infected. Everyone has a role to play in stopping this virus being passed on. The most important thing we can do is mask, pass, scan and keep your distance. We also know that boosters really strengthen the body’s ability to fight this virus. That enhanced response gives much greater protection than 2 doses alone. Having tamariki vaccinated too helps protect them and their wider family group, particularly older whanau members. The shift in approach to managing Omicron is to ensure support is targeted to where it is needed the most, so our health system and supply chains remain sustainable. The key features of Phase 2 are a reduction in isolation periods required for cases (down to 10 days) and contacts (down to 7 days); the use of Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) to allow critical workers who are Close Contacts of a case to be able to go to work if they test negative; and a greater use of digital tools to support cases and contacts. There will continue to be a strong focus on vaccination. Cases will now be notified by text message. The message will provide links to information on self-isolation, how to tell others you have COVID-19, how to look after yourself and what help is available. Those who test positive will fill in a web-based form to help ensure that those with the highest needs, either health or welfare, are prioritised and managed accordingly. This might be, for example, if a person is immunocompromised or has an underlying illness that would be severely impacted by contracting COVID-19. Cases will self-identify their close contacts online for contact tracing purposes and to help identify high risk exposure events. They will also be required to inform their employer themselves. Notifying cases by text will speed up the process and help reduce spread as cases can be contacted quickly - as soon as a positive result is confirmed by the laboratory - and isolate early. Their contacts can then also isolate early. Phone-based interviews will continue by public health case investigators where required. This might include cases at Aged Residential Care facilities and those who do not have a mobile phone or computer. Cases and household contacts will now isolate for 10 days with Day 1 being when the case receives their first positive test. Household contacts will need to test at Day 3 and 8 or if they become symptomatic. Non-household close contacts will isolate for 7 days and test on Day 5 or if they become symptomatic. Contacts will also be notified via text message and will receive links to the information they need to self-manage. QR scans, Bluetooth and location of interest will continue to be used to identify contacts along with the cases own recollection of who they have interacted with, or where they have been. As part of the move to Phase 2 of the Omicron Response Plan, a Section 70 Notice is now in place for Cases requiring them to isolate for 10 days from exposure. An additional Section 70 Notice relating to both close contacts and household contacts isolation and testing requirements is also now in place. COVID-19 epidemic notice and orders | health.govt.nz (external link) The critical worker close contact exemption scheme has begun for symptomatic healthcare and critical workers, for those who have a negative test daily using a RAT. The results of RATs can also be self-recorded in My Covid Record, alongside PCRs. The COVID-19 Health Hub will go live on Thursday enabling better support to be delivered by linking cases to the closest geographical providers More information COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link)
Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2
With daily case numbers in the thousands and forecast to rise sharply during the next few weeks, now is the time to implement the next stage in our plan that will keep New Zealand going throughout the Omicron peak. These changes will ease some of the pressure on our testing and contact tracing services over the next 3 to 6 weeks, while helping to ensure critical services and supply chains remain operational and our economy keeps moving. There is no doubt the next few weeks are going to be tough, but New Zealand is better-positioned than most countries to respond to Omicron. What we are seeing is what we expected. We just need to stick to our plan as we manage higher numbers of cases in coming weeks before we reach our peak. Because so many of us are vaccinated and Omicron is less severe we can have a more devolved response and much greater self-management. Care and support will continue to be there for those who need it most, as it always has been. Preparation and supporting one another will be key. We’ve been asking people to prepare for the last few weeks, both mentally and by putting plans in place. Making an isolation plan or ‘stay at home’ kit with friends and whānau, and being ready to use the tools that are available to allow resources to be directed towards protecting the most vulnerable. Community providers are resourced to provide care in the community, especially to vulnerable populations, and wraparound health and welfare support services alongside clinical care will focus on those with high needs. From now on the number of hospitalisations will replace case numbers as our key metric. New Zealand is one of the most vaccinated countries in the world, which means that for most people, Omicron will be a mild to moderate illness. That should make the next period less of a worry for the vast majority of people. But we are still strongly encouraging people to get boosted. You are much less likely to need hospital care and new evidence shows it helps lower the likelihood of getting infected and transmitting COVID-19 to others. So please, for those who aren’t yet boosted, it’s now urgent. There are 3 major changes to how we will manage this phase: From midnight tonight, close contacts will no longer be required to self-isolate and only confirmed cases and household contacts of a confirmed case will be required to do so. Confirmed cases and household contacts should isolate for 10 days but can now self-release after day 10, providing any testing requirements are met. If they develop symptoms, they are encouraged to test sooner. We are continuing to support our critical services to operate. The critical worker exemption scheme we announced this month will enable eligible household contacts to return to work during their isolation periods by returning a daily negative Rapid Antigen Test, and should it become necessary we may consider supporting probable or confirmed cases to return to work. There are also changes to how we test, and who should get a test. With millions of RATs now distributed around the country to testing sites, GPs, pharmacies and within workplaces, RATs will become the primary form of testing. You can now access a RAT from hundreds of locations around the country, making getting a test much easier and over the coming days the number of access points will increase significantly. Locations which have RATs available can be found on the HealthPoint website. PCR testing will be reserved for people where it’s clinically indicated they need it. A PCR test will no longer be required to verify a positive RAT result. In addition, approved RATs will soon be able to be sold to the public through retail outlets. This will provide choice and access for the general public and small businesses. As a country, we’re moving to a stance of greater self-management. This will include use of a new self-investigation tool which will support positive cases to self-notify contacts. Because only household contacts are required to isolate, the tool will assist us to track high risk exposure events or locations. Contact tracing teams will now focus on identifying and tracing those who have visited these high-risk location such as hospital or aged care facility. There will be continued support for those members of our community who are not digitally set up. How to self-manage COVID-19
On Saturday, 34,000 RAT orders were placed through the RAT requester site . Another 3.5 million RATs were sent out to collection sites around the country on Sunday. A total of a further 8 million RATs arrived in the country over the weekend. The Ministry is working with DHBs so that 90% of the population will be able to collect their pre-ordered RAT within a 20 minute driving distance if they are symptomatic or in a household with someone with symptoms. To meet this goal, there are already 300 collection points across the country and more are planned for this week. To facilitate access in Christchurch, a large scale community testing centre will be up and running at the Christchurch Arena from today, the Wellington Region will have an additional collection site stood up from Tuesday, and Palmerston North will have three additional sites this week. On top of the collection sites , some DHBs are delivering RATs to parts of the community who are unable to easily get to a collection site while others are distributing through community providers. Last Thursday saw the biggest day for demand for RATs across the country with more than 1.5 million tests given out in 24 hours. Since then demand has been levelling out. For example, Friday’s volume was less than half of the previous day. But as we see the high case numbers continue, further drive through only services and delivery options are also being considered. There is ample supply of RATs in the country. We urge people to be patient and make sure they both need a test and are going to the right places to get one. Separate to those new stocks arriving at the weekend, the Ministry has 9.3 million RATs in stock.  Over 10 million RATs were distributed throughout New Zealand last week. We ask New Zealanders to be patient with staff at testing centres. They are working as hard as they can. Abusive or aggressive behaviour does not help anyone and may force centres to close due to health and safety reasons. Request a RAT (external link) Where to collect RATs | healthpoint.co.nz (external link)
The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code
From 11.59 pm 27 February, eligible travellers from Nauru, Tuvalu and American Samoa, will be able to enter New Zealand without entering MIQ or self-isolation on arrival, as air routes become available. This is in recognition that these countries have no COVID-19 community cases. Initially travel will be open to people who have a right to reside in New Zealand and those covered by border exceptions. There will be no pre-departure test required, but non-New Zealand citizens must be vaccinated. If travellers transit another quarantine-free travel country (like Samoa or Vanuatu) they will still enter New Zealand with no isolation or quarantine required. If travellers transit a non-quarantine-free travel country (like Australia or Fiji), they will be subject to the same entry and testing requirements as other travellers from that country. The Government has announced its plan for the staged opening of our borders, which will make it easier for many more people to reconnect and travel to New Zealand from other parts of the world. Opening up to travellers from parts of the Pacific where COVID-19 risks are low is part of this plan. We currently have quarantine-free travel for travellers coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, Niue, Samoa, Tokelau and Vanuatu. Extending this to Nauru, Tuvalu and American Samoa is an important step in further reconnecting with our Pacific whānau, bringing significant social and economic benefits and reflecting the importance of links across our region. It demonstrates our commitment to the principle of whanaungatanga with the Pacific.
While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery. We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.
Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB]
Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said.
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. --- Section Separator --- The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: recovered charges do not exceed the actual costs of managed isolation and quarantine no upfront payment would be required there would be flexibility in how people could pay. Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) --- Section Separator --- The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: $3,100 per person in a room $950 for each additional adult, and $475 for each additional child sharing the room. The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Any New Zealander, who either: leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. Any temporary visa holder, unless: they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Family members travelling or isolating with people who do not have to pay charges (unless they are entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker). New Zealand citizens deported to New Zealand. Diplomats and official government representatives. Any person travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the accused in the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees and protected persons for their first entry into New Zealand after the charges come into force. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. --- Section Separator --- Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon.
More than 3 million Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) have been distributed across New Zealand for workers who keep New Zealand’s critical services and supply chains moving, and those in our community most at risk from the effects of COVID-19. The deliveries follow the opening of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme and the move to Phase 2 of the Omicron response strategy. RATs have been sent to sites including District Health Boards, Healthcare and Emergency Service workforces, testing facilities, GP clinics, aged care facilities and community health providers. The Ministry has also provided RATs directly to organisations, including businesses that are currently affected by outbreaks, to make it easier to test their workers who are contacts and keep their organisations running. Although there are still significant global supply constraints, we have secured the delivery of enough RATs to help New Zealand through a widespread Omicron outbreak in the coming months. There are currently 7.3 million RATs in the system with around 22.5 million expected by the end of the month, including 9.2 million due to arrive by the end of next week. On the first day of the scheme around 200 orders were received and we expect these numbers to go up rapidly which is why we will be scaling up in line with demand. There are collection sites in every DHB around the country, with nearly 100 collection sites ready to go across New Zealand. This number will increase in line with demand as cases rise during the outbreak and more critical workers become close contacts. We are also working with around 1000 community health providers to help those we know experience poorer outcomes, higher death rates and increased health, economic and social inequities from the effects of COVID-19. These providers have demonstrated in previous outbreaks that they can deliver local and regional approaches that help people access testing when they need it. So if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should still contact your health provider to get a PCR test, and if you do not have symptoms then you do not need to get a test. It is still important to keep up with the basic healthcare prevention measures – stay home if you are sick, get a booster if it has been 3 months since your second shot, wash your hands, wear your mask, scan in and maintain social distancing where possible. Under the public health response RATs are being prioritised for 3 groups: The Healthcare and Emergency Service Workforce including those who work in District Health Boards, GPs, Pharmacies, Aged Residential Care facilities, Police, Corrections, FENZ and Managed Isolation Quarantine Facilities who have been identified as a close contact and need a test to go to work will be given RATs by their employer. Priority populations, who are at heightened risk when symptomatic, will be able to get a supervised RAT from their GP or community provider, who will record the results. Asymptomatic critical workers who are fully vaccinated, have been identified as a close contact and need a test to go to work can get RATs from a collection site as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Collection sites are listed on Healthpoint and in many cases are existing facilities. There are nearly 100 RATs collection sites ready to go and more will be added as demand increases due to increasing numbers and spread of cases and close contacts. At this stage RATs are only available at collection sites for asymptomatic critical workers who are fully vaccinated, have been identified as a close contact and need a test to go to work as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Workers must be vaccinated to be eligible for the Close Contact Exemption Scheme, so as well as their vaccine pass, workers will need to show: A letter from the Critical Services Register, Their critical worker authorisation letter from their employer to prove they are a critical worker in a critical business, Personal ID like a Driver’s Licence to prove who they are, and The text message confirming they are a close contact and therefore eligible for a test. People should not turn up to a collection site if they are unwell. They should call their health provider or Healthline, and they should still get a PCR test. Yes, they just need to provide the above information. In some cases, there may be large number of contacts at a specific work site/location. The local DHB and Public Health Unit will work with the site to supply a quantity of RATs directly to the business.
Advice from the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group and the Director General of Health is that it is now appropriate to drop the requirement for self-isolation for fully vaccinated travellers after they arrive in New Zealand. Cabinet has agreed to lift all self-isolation requirements for vaccinated travellers entering New Zealand from 11:59pm on Wednesday 2 March 2022. That means New Zealand citizens and other eligible travellers entering the country will be able to step off the plane and immediately connect with family and friends and enjoy all New Zealand has to offer. Caution has served us well during the past 2 years and as we continue to move through the Omicron outbreak and peak, we will continue to remove restrictions when advised it is safe to do so — as we always said we would. Now that we are 2 years into the COVID-19 pandemic, the risk has shifted from our border to our community. As the pandemic evolves, we are too. Getting tested is now quicker and easier, requirements for isolation have been simplified to those who share a household, and care in the community is focused towards those most in need of support. Travellers will still be required to: have a negative pre-departure test, and undertake 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on arrival and at day 5/6. If anyone returns a positive result, they will be required to report it and isolate for the same period as a community case. Returnees are also asked to follow up their positive RAT with a PCR test, so that we can run whole genome sequencing and determine the variant. This will ensure that we can still keep tabs on any emerging variants and isolate cases as needed. --- Section Separator --- The Government has also confirmed it will bring forward Step 2 so that New Zealanders from the rest of the world can return from midnight this Friday 4 March. Cabinet will review the timings of the remaining steps in the coming weeks. We are able to take these decisions because we have a highly vaccinated population and good public health restrictions through the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) in place. To the nearly 1 million people who are due their booster, you are urged to get it today. The fact remains that if you are unvaccinated you are much more likely to end up in hospital with COVID-19 than if you are vaccinated and boosted. As we progressively open, all vaccinated travellers who test negative for COVID-19 will be able to immediately enjoy New Zealand and all it has to offer. This will be a shot in the arm for our tourism sector, our regional economies and our overall economic recovery from COVID-19. Professor Sir David Skegg’s advisory group acknowledges that without self-isolation there will be more travellers and therefore cases entering the community. However, as outlined in the advice these numbers will remain a very small proportion of overall cases for the foreseeable future. Border cases have been decreasing over the past month, both in number and as a proportion of arriving travellers. The 7-day average for border cases at the weekend was 9.4, compared with a 7-day average of around 6,700 for cases in the community. The border and MIQ workforce have done a phenomenal job at first keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand and then slowing the spread once it arrived. Because of this mahi, New Zealand has one of the lowest number of deaths from COVID-19 in the world. Managed isolation will remain for unvaccinated New Zealanders, refugees and some community cases as needed. But it does mean we will begin to scale back some of our managed isolation capacity. The Minister for the COVID-19 Response will have more to say on this in the coming weeks.
Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date.
The Novavax COVID-19 vaccine will be available to people aged 18 and over, following Cabinet’s confirmation yesterday. Novavax is a protein-based COVID-19 vaccine and while the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine remains the preferred vaccine of most New Zealanders, for some people, the arrival of Novavax will be the extra incentive required to get vaccinated against COVID-19. There’s no reason to doubt that with the introduction of Novavax, New Zealand can continue to nudge up our vaccination rates. We’re already one of the most highly vaccinated countries in the world — at 95% of people aged 12 and over — and we can go higher still, which will make us all safer. The first doses are anticipated to arrive in New Zealand this month and officials are working with Novavax to confirm the delivery schedule and rollout start date. In the meantime, work is underway to prepare for the use of Novavax in the immunisation programme. This includes workforce training and ensuring logistics measures are in place to ensure that those who want to be vaccinated with the Novavax vaccine will have this option.
Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: The returnee is isolated in their room, whilst a dedicated quarantine transfer vehicle is sent from the quarantine facility. The vehicle is crewed by a driver and an assistant in PPE. Upon arrival of the transfer vehicle at the managed isolation facility, the returnee(s) is moved to the vehicle, with luggage placed in a trailer. Upon arrival at the Quarantine facility, the returnee(s) is processed by facility and health staff in PPE. Following departure from the managed isolation facility, the positive case(s)’s room is sealed for ten days, after which time it is given a deep clean. I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made.
15,353 new community cases 22 new cases identified at the border 952 cases in hospital 1,762 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 3,199 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Please continue to get tested if you have symptoms. Even if you think you might have COVID-19, it is better to test and know for sure. If you have symptoms, but you are unsure whether or not to get a test, please contact your health professional or Health on 0800 358 5453 and follow advice. Getting tested remains one of the best ways to find any undetected community transmission. Please continue with all the usual precautions of staying home when sick; wearing masks as directed; washing hands and scanning as you go. If you test positive with a rapid antigen test, it is essential you register your positive result. How to report your RAT results As we are seeing the vast majority of positive results coming from rapid antigen tests, it is essential people continue to register their result, whether it is positive or negative. We want to know if you test positive. It is the best way to give public health officials an overview of case numbers in particular areas of New Zealand, to help determine the best spread of public health resources. It’s also important if your condition worsens and you require additional healthcare. The Ministry of Health would like to thank the many people who are reporting their rapid antigen test (RAT) results — both positive and negative. Today we are reporting 15,540 new community cases, 952 people in hospital with the virus, and 2 COVID-19 related deaths. We know the Omicron variant can cause serious illness and death either directly or by its impact on other health conditions, particularly for our older and more vulnerable New Zealanders. The importance of getting boosted cannot be under-estimated. Getting vaccinated and boosted will help reduce your risk of severe COVID-19 illness and could save your life. Getting boosted will not only reduce your risk of severe illness, but it will also help to protect our most vulnerable communities. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
744 new community cases 19 new cases identified at the border 40 cases in hospital 21,070 total tests in the last 24 hours 1,959,875 booster doses administered (61%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Big Boost Week continues to see tens of thousands of people going out to get their booster dose each day. Yesterday, 47,573 booster doses were administered across the motu – that’s twice as many as Sunday – and brings the total so far to almost 2 million doses. Additionally, Whanganui DHB yesterday afternoon reached a vaccine milestone, with their eligible population now 90% fully vaccinated. The Ministry of Health would like to thank everyone in New Zealand who has been vaccinated. You are doing your bit to keep all New Zealanders safe. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
1160 new community cases 43 new cases identified at the border 56 cases in hospital 28,140 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,006,361 booster doses administered (62%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Big Boost Week continues to see tens of thousands of people going out to get their booster dose each day. Yesterday, 46,156  booster doses were administered across the motu and brings the total so far to more than 2 million doses. The Ministry of Health would like to thank everyone in New Zealand who has been vaccinated. You are doing your bit to keep all New Zealanders safe. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
1573 new community cases 15 new cases identified at the border 63 cases in hospital 32,285 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,047,022 booster doses administered (64%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Big Boost push continues to see tens of thousands of people going out to get their booster dose each day. Yesterday, 40,452 booster doses were administered across the motu and brings the total so far to more than two million doses. It’s also fantastic news that more than 90% of Māori aged 12 years and over in the Hutt Valley have now been full vaccinated, becoming the fourth DHB area in Aotearoa to achieve this milestone. The most important step anyone can take to prepare for Omicron is to book their vaccine which is our best defence against the virus. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
1929 new community cases 18 new cases identified at the border 73 cases in hospital 32,894 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,081,556 booster doses administered (62%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Nearly 370,000 booster doses were administered over a successful Big Boost week, pushing the total number of boosted people past 2 million. The Ministry of Health would like to thank everyone who has gone out to get a booster dose, and staff at vaccine clinics who have worked tirelessly to help protect New Zealand against COVID-19. We’re continuing to see tens of thousands of people going to get their booster each day. Yesterday, 35,903 booster doses were administered across the motu. The booster dose is critical in our fight against the Omicron variant, which is spreading around the country. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
1901 new community cases 14 new cases identified at the border 76 cases in hospital 30,642 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,107,058 booster doses administered (65%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Under Phase 2, the health response will, more than ever, be supported by everyone playing their part to lessen the impact of the Omicron outbreak. This means wear your mask, use your vaccine pass, and keep your distance. And, if you haven’t already, get boosted. With the response focusing on the most high-risk locations of interest, such as aged care and correction facilities, people will play a bigger role in identifying their own contacts and exposure events. This means if you test positive for COVID-19, it’s more important than ever that you let your employer and potential contacts know, so they can act. If you test positive, you will get a text from 2328 with an access code and a link to the contact tracing form to complete as well as information regarding self-isolation and general advice for cases. Completing this form as soon as possible will ensure we can alert people who have been potentially exposed and is vital in supporting the health response to Omicron under Phase 2. Most people with Omicron will have mild illness and won't require additional support. Those who need more support whether it’s because they are unable to use the self-service technology or that they have high health or social needs, will receive supported assistance throughout their isolation period tailored to their individual needs. As always, anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned and they are feeling well. Regardless of your test result, it is still important that anyone who is unwell stays home to reduce the spread of other viruses. The most common early symptom of the Omicron variant is a cough, followed by a sore throat. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
2522 new community cases 17 new cases identified at the border 100 cases in hospital 27,825 total tests in the last 24 hours Due to a database reporting issue, today's data cannot currently be provided around the COVID-19 vaccine. COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- From Monday morning, rapid antigen tests (RATs) will be made available at all Auckland testing sites to those who fit the appropriate clinical criteria. The site will determine which test  (PCR or a RAT) is best for you Access to RATs will be expanded further during the coming week. As the outbreak grows more people will have COVID-19 and there will be more close contacts we need to test. As planned we will now increase the use of RATs in Phase 2 and Phase 3 of our response in order to relieve pressure on the PCR testing and reserve it for those most likely to have COVID-19. Only those with symptoms or who have been identified as close contacts of a case, or directed by a health professional to get tested should be turning up at testing sites. Some important points for the public to be aware of are: people who are directed to have a RAT will be given advice on what to do if they have a positive result. At the current time, they will likely be advised that they need to have a PCR test to confirm the positive result. RATs are not as accurate as PCR tests at identifying someone early in their illness so if you have a negative rapid antigen test result and symptoms start to develop, you may need to have another test. This is also why it is so important that if you are unwell, you must stay home regardless of the test result, which will also help reduce the spread of other viruses. RATs will initially be available in Auckland, as we continue to widen access in other high-demand centres around New Zealand. We will provide updates on this rollout over the coming week. We have good stocks of RATs (7.3 million) to support the public health response, with a continual supply arriving by airfreight Testing continues to be one of our best defences against COVID-19. Understandably as case numbers grow, so too does demand on COVID-19 testing sites. That’s why it’s important to reiterate once again that people do not need to get tested, unless they are unwell with cold or flu symptoms, have been identified as a close contact of a case or have been instructed to do so by health officials. As this demand has grown, some COVID-19 test results for Auckland and Waikato are currently taking longer to process at laboratories. The use of rapid antigen testing, alongside PCR testing, will improve this process at a time of exceptional demand in Phase 2, provided the testing centre queues are freely available for those who really need a test. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
2,365 new community cases 12 new cases identified at the border 116 cases in hospital 27,109 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,169,906 booster doses (66%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- More than 2.1 million booster shots have now been given nationally, with more than 15,000 administered on Sunday. Getting the booster dose greatly reduces your chances of getting severely ill and requiring hospital care if you test positive for COVID-19, so if it’s been three months since your last dose, please book your booster today. Additionally, 90% of Māori in Counties Manukau DHB have now received their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Omicron has spread to all DHBs across the North and South Islands, but all of us can play our part to slow the spread of the virus, help protect our most vulnerable people from being infected, and ensure our health system is able to manage extra demand for services. As always, anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned and they are feeling well. Regardless of your test result, it is still important that anyone who is unwell stays home to reduce the spread of other viruses. The most common early symptom of the Omicron variant is a cough, followed by a sore throat and/or runny nose. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
2,846 new community cases 15 new cases identified at the border 143 cases in hospital 24,351 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,197,887 booster doses (67% of those eligible) COVID-19 data and statistics (external link) --- Section Separator --- The booster rollout continues with more than 27,770 booster doses administered across the motu yesterday. With Omicron spreading rapidly in New Zealand, it is important everyone who is eligible gets a booster dose, which greatly reduces your chances of getting severely ill and requiring hospital care if you test positive for COVID-19. This will reduce COVID-19 hospitalisations and ensure there is capacity in our health system for anyone who needs care. If it has been three months since your last dose, please book your booster today. The Ministry of Health continues to stress the importance of the right people being tested for the right reasons. Over the last week, a significant number of concerned people who don’t need a test are going to get a test – those are people who don’t have any COVID-19 symptoms and are not a contact of a case. People should only get tested if they have cold or flu symptoms, have been identified as a close contact of a case, or have been asked to get tested by a health official. As demand for testing has grown, some COVID-19 test results for Auckland and Waikato are currently taking longer to process at laboratories. The use of rapid antigen testing, alongside PCR testing, will improve this process at a time of exceptional demand in Phase 2, provided the Community Testing Centre queues are freely available for those who really need a test. We are anticipating continued high demand at our COVID-19 testing sites, so our request is to, please, be patient. Staff across the testing network are working tirelessly, to process tests and return results in a timely way. We would like to thank them for their recent mahi. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
3,297 new community cases 8 new cases identified at the border 179 cases in hospital 27,550 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,223,385 booster doses --- Section Separator --- People in the capital and at the top of the South are leading the charge in getting their booster shots in the fight against Omicron, with 75% of eligible people from the both Capital & Coast and Nelson-Marlborough DHBs having now had their booster. Collectively, this represents almost a quarter of a million people across both regions who have stepped up in recent weeks, contributing to more than 2.2 million New Zealanders who have played their part in getting their booster so far. We’re asking everyone who has had a booster to remind their friends and whanau to do the same – people are eligible for a booster dose if it has been more than three months since their second dose. A high rate of booster doses across the country will lower the number of people becoming severely ill from Omicron and ensure there is capacity in our health system for anyone who needs care. There were 25,367 booster doses administered across the motu yesterday. With COVID-19 spreading rapidly, a significant number of concerned people who don’t need a test are going to get a test are continuing to turn up – those are people who don’t have any COVID-19 symptoms and are not a contact of a case. The Ministry of Health continues to stress the importance of the right people being tested for the right reasons. People should only get tested if they have cold or flu symptoms, have been identified as a close contact of a case, or have been asked to get tested by a health official. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,137 new community cases 8 new cases identified at the border 205 cases in hospital 29,805 total tests in the last 24 hours 2,248,153 booster doses --- Section Separator --- Increasing numbers of cases and hospitalisations are another reminder that vaccination is our best defence against the virus. There is growing evidence that three doses of Pfizer is protective against infection and symptomatic infection for Omicron. We are strongly encouraging people to get a booster dose if it has been more than three months since their second dose. There were 24,632 booster doses administered across the motu yesterday and overall, around 68.2% of the eligible population have received a booster dose. The total number of cases reported will now include those identified from both RATs and PCR tests. A breakdown gives how many cases were identified using PCR and how many through RATs. Today’s figure will include cases identified with RATs in the same midnight-to-midnight reporting period used for reporting positive PCR tests. The Omicron public health response during Phase Two and Three operates on more devolved model to ensure health resources are focused on those who need it most. It is very important to the overall response that people self-report positive results for RATs, so we understand the size of the outbreak. We’d like to thank the thousands of people who have already self-reported positive RAT results. Based on overseas experiences, the Ministry of Health has been expecting the true number of community cases to be higher than the cases reported each day and this has been factored into our Omicron planning. When assessing the outbreak, health officials typically review trends in the 7-day rolling average of community cases to understand the spread of the virus, as well as hospitalisations to understand severe COVID-19 illness and related impacts on the health system. Because we focus on the actual trend, any potential ‘undercount’ doesn’t significantly impact our assessment of the trend, and subsequent public health advice and decision-making. Further information on RATS will be reported in coming days.
12,011 new community cases 19 new cases identified at the border 237 cases in hospital 30,979 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 2,275,424 booster doses --- Section Separator --- The further increase in cases today is not unexpected given the ongoing spread of Omicron and wider testing achieved from the combined use of Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) and PCR. These case numbers and hospitalisations are another reminder that vaccination is our best defence against the virus. There is growing evidence that three doses of Pfizer is protective against Omicron. We are strongly encouraging people to get a booster dose if it has been more than 3 months since their second dose. There were 25,461 booster doses administered yesterday and, overall, around 68.8% of the eligible population have received a booster dose. As always, anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned and they are feeling well. Regardless of your test result, it is still important that anyone who is unwell stays home to reduce the spread of other viruses. The most common early symptom of the Omicron variant is a cough, followed by a sore throat and/or runny nose. If you need advice on managing your symptoms, or whether you should seek care, Healthline is the first port of call ( 0800 358 5453 ). As the Omicron outbreak grows, RATs are now used as the primary test at all community testing centres. The Omicron public health response is now in Phase 3 and operating on a more devolved model to ensure health resources are focused on those who need it most. It is very important to the overall response that people self-report positive results for RATs through My Covid Record (external link) , so we understand the size of the outbreak. We’d like to thank the thousands of people who have been tested and already self-reported positive RAT results. We are anticipating continued high demand for COVID-19 testing across the motu. Although there are still significant global supply constraints, we have secured the delivery of enough RATs to help New Zealand through a widespread Omicron outbreak in the coming months. Over the past two days, 5.2 million RATs arrived in the country. Another 10 million will arrive over the weekend, bringing our total supply to more than 22 million by Monday. These tests are being shipped to community testing centres, GPs, and pharmacies across New Zealand. Critical services and businesses who need them as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme can also access them. People who use a RAT will get their results within 20 minutes, which will help identify cases sooner, reduce testing wait times and minimise disruption to business and ensure critical services and infrastructure workforce can continue operating. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
13,606 new community cases 6 new cases identified at the border 263 cases in hospital 31,016 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 2,305,104 booster doses --- Section Separator --- The growth in hospitalisations and patients in ICU is not unexpected, has been planned for and is another reminder that vaccination is our best defence against COVID-19. With cases escalating in the community the Ministry of Health is urging all New Zealanders who are due their booster to get it as soon as possible in order to reduce your chance of serious illness and hospitalisation. This means a highly boosted New Zealand will help ensure there is capacity in our health system for anyone who needs care. 31,217 booster doses were administered yesterday, but 30.5% of people who are currently due their booster have not yet had it. We urge those people to make a plan to get boosted as soon as they can. We are also beginning to see people who have attended the protest at Parliament, a location of interest and potential super spreader event, showing up in hospitals around the country after returning home. We advise all those currently at the protest, or who have been at the protest, who are displaying cold and flu symptoms to get a test and isolate until they receive their result. As the Omicron outbreak grows, RATs are now used as the primary test at all community testing centres and by GPs for diagnostic purposes. They will make the decision on which test is most appropriate for you. PCR testing is being reserved for those people who most need it. The Ministry of Health advises people to only get tested if they have symptoms or have been directed to do so by a health professional. Please do not seek testing if you are well as this delays testing for people who are unwell. Please be patient with staff at testing centres, and GP clinics. They are doing their best to cope with high demand for testing. People who use a RAT will get their results within 20 minutes, which will help identify cases sooner, reduce testing wait times and minimise disruption to business and ensure critical services and infrastructure workforce can continue operating. It is very important to the overall response that people self-report positive results for RATs through My Covid Record (external link) , so we understand the size of the outbreak. We’d like to thank the thousands of people who have been tested and already self-reported positive RAT results. For most people, including children, they will be able to recover from COVID-19 at home, with their family or others they live with, like they normally would with a cold or flu. If you or your child start to feel worse, please stay at home and call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453.  All GP and urgent care clinic appointments for COVID-19 are free. If you or a family member becomes very unwell, such as like having difficulty breathing or chest pains, call 111 immediately. The ambulance will be free. Hospital emergency departments are very busy, so please only go if it’s an emergency. Under Phase 3 of the Omicron response there is no requirement for non-critical workers to have a COVID-19 test before they come to work, whether a RAT or PCR.  Employers who are not part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme, are reminded that they should not be requesting this of their non-critical workers. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
14,941 new community cases 41 new cases identified at the border 305 cases in hospital 27,789 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 2,333,984 booster doses --- Section Separator --- More than two thirds of eligible New Zealanders have now had their booster, a huge step in the fight against the spread of Omicron in our communities. Wild weather, traffic and queues didn’t deter the 70 per cent of those eligible – who have turned out at vaccination clinics across the motu over recent weeks. Credit also goes to our awesome team of more than 16,000 trained vaccinators who are doing the mahi. We thank each and every New Zealander who has joined the fight so far, being boosted has increased their protection against severe disease. With Omicron spreading rapidly in our communities, we encourage every remaining eligible person to get boosted. If you had your second vaccination at least 3 months ago and you’re 18 and over you can book online at www.BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or visit a walk-in or drive-thru vaccination clinic. For a list of vaccinations centres visit Healthpoint (external link) . We are seeing that a large proportion of recent cases are under 30 years of age. In the past fortnight, of the 14,940 cases reported, 59% have been under 30 years of age and 12% over the age of 50. The two age groups with the highest percentage of cases are people aged between 10-19 years of age and those aged between 20-29 which account for 25% and 25% of cases respectively. The opposite pattern is seen in those who are in hospital with COVID-19. Of the current 236 patients with COVID-19 in hospital in the Northern region (there are 305 in the whole country) there are 19% who are under the age of 30 and 54% over the age of 50. This reflects similar trends seen overseas where younger people, who are more socially active, often have higher infection rates, though it is the older age groups which are most likely to require hospital treatment from COVID-19. We are also seeing a continuing spread of cases across the country. The three Auckland DHBs continue to predominate with the highest rates of infection in the country (Auckland 1,843 cases per 100,000 population; Counties Manukau 2,596 per 100,000 population and Waitemata 1,179 per 100,000 population. Other areas with higher rates include Southern with 929 per 100,000; Waikato with 913 per 100,000 population and Bay of Plenty with 759 per 100,000 population. Sadly, a patient passed away in a Northland hospital yesterday. The person died from an unrelated medical condition and had tested positive for COVID-19. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
14,633 new community cases 23 new cases identified at the border 344 cases in hospital 22,742 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 2,347,710 booster doses --- Section Separator --- Since Friday, 10.8 million Rapid Antigen Tests have arrived in the country. This follows 5.2 million that landed on Thursday. These new RATs will flow through the supply chain and into Community Testing Centres, GPs, pharmacies and businesses where they can be accessed by anyone who needs one. The wide-ranging and disruptive impact of COVID-19 on the domestic freight and courier networks has had an impact on distribution and delivery times for RATs in some areas. We are working hard to ensure there is supply in all communities, including those in remote areas. From today, the Ministry of Health will report the number of RATs dispatched from its central warehouse, instead of the overall volume (as previously reported), in the daily COVID-19 media statement. As the number of COVID-19 cases increases, we are continuing to see a disproportionate number of unvaccinated cases requiring hospital care. Just 3% of eligible people aged 12 and over in New Zealand have had no doses of the vaccine, however, of the eligible people in Northland and Auckland hospitals with COVID-19, 12% have had no doses of the vaccine. Even this early in the Omicron outbreak, the figures show that, based on the data available, unvaccinated people are four times over-represented in the current hospitalisation data. The numbers send a clear message: getting vaccinated will help to keep you out of hospital if you catch COVID-19, and could save your life. We know getting a booster dose provides a high level of protection against Omicron. With Omicron spreading quickly, we’re continuing to encourage every remaining eligible person to get boosted as soon as possible. If you had your second vaccination at least 3 months ago and you’re 18 and over, you can book online at www.BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or visit a walk-in or drive-thru vaccination clinic. For a list of vaccinations centres visit Healthpoint (external link) . Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
18,833 new community cases 7 new cases identified at the border 597 cases in hospital 14,049 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 16,248 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- There are 18,833 community cases of COVID-19 to report today which is a decrease in daily cases from recent days where we reported cases above 20,000. While decreases in cases can be encouraging, the Ministry of Health urges caution. We are expecting cases to jump around, and are continuing to see increases in COVID-19 related hospitalisations. Additionally, public health officials consider that one possible reason for the decrease in cases could be related to people not self-reporting Rapid Antigen Test results. The Ministry of Health would like to remind everyone to self-report both positive and negative results for RATs through My Covid Record, to help health officials understand the size and trends of the outbreak. People who need help recording their result can also call 0800 222 478. We would also like to remind parents and caregivers to report test results for their children via the 0800 number. It is essential we have has much information as possible to inform public health decision-making. So, today, our message is simple: if you take a Rapid Antigen Test, report the result online through my COVID Record. The Ministry would like to thank the tens of thousands of people who have reported a RAT result – you are doing your bit for the health response. How to self-report RAT results The Ministry has been made aware of people trying to walk through testing centre drive thrus to collect RATs. This is dangerous, and we would like to remind people to check Healthpoint for information about drive-through and walk-in community testing centres. We are continuing to see a high demand for Rapid Antigen Tests and the Ministry continues to assure people that we have good supply of tests. With tens of thousands of people collecting RATs from testing centres and collection sites, our request is to, please, be patient and kind to each other and staff. If you are symptomatic or a household contact, you can order RATs through the newly launched RAT requester site. You, or someone of your behalf, can collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint. Please only go to those sites that are listed as collection sites. Request RATs | covid19.health.nz (external link) Collection sites | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) The  priority for COVID-19 response for free RATs remains those who are symptomatic or a household contact. Please do not order or request RATs from testing centre or collections sites unless you are unwell or a household contact. International travel pre-departure testing is not covered under the public health response. If you are well, you can still purchase RATs from one of a growing number of retailers which stock them. Sadly, we are today reporting the deaths of five people with COVID-19. Of these, two were being cared for at North Shore Hospital, two at Middlemore Hospital and one at Auckland City Hospital. Three of the patients were in their 80s, one was in their 70s and one was in their 60s. Three were male and two were female. Our thoughts and condolences are with these peoples’ whānau and friends. Out of respect for privacy, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
15,161 new community cases 4 new cases identified at the border 618 cases in hospital 5,685 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 14,666 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- We are reporting 15,161 community cases of COVID-19 today, another day in which the overall daily case numbers reported has decreased. While decreases in cases can be encouraging, the Ministry of Health urges caution. The variation in reporting numbers each day means that the rolling average of cases gives a more reliable indicator of testing trends. The seven-day rolling average of cases is today 17,272, up from 16,687 yesterday. Additionally, public health officials consider that one possible reason for the decrease in cases could be related to delays in people self-reporting Rapid Antigen Test results, even if it is a negative result. It is essential we have as much information as possible to inform public health decision-making. If you take a Rapid Antigen Test, report the result online through my COVID Record. Reporting your RAT results We are continuing to see increases in COVID-19 related hospitalisations, which is significantly greater than those from last year's Delta outbreak. The hospitalisation figure of 544 on Thursday was six times the peak in hospitalisations seen in the Delta outbreak last year. The number of cases in hospital is currently expected to peak in the second half of this month. The Omicron variant means people who are hospitalised are more likely to have a shorter stay and less likely to be admitted to ICU or require oxygen or ventilation support. Most cases in the week from 24 February to 3 March have continued to be reported in Auckland where, 61% of new cases were reported. In the week from 24 February to 3 March more cases were reported in New Zealand Europeans (39%), followed by Pacific people (26%). However, rates of infection are highest for Pacific people (7,510 per 100,000), followed by Maori (2,465 per 100,000), Asian (2,234 per 100,000) and lowest for New Zealand European (1,322 per 100,000). With Omicron continuing to spread, your household may be affected soon if it hasn’t already. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will need to isolate while you recover from COVID-19. Others in your household will need to also isolate with you until the end of your isolation period. Stock up on supplies before there’s a COVID-19 case in your household. In addition, organise with friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs of food and supplies as needed and/or discuss your medication needs with your local pharmacist ahead of time. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. The Ministry would like to thank the many people reporting their rapid antigen tests (RATs) with more than 40,000 test results reported in the past 24 hours, of which  14,618 were positive. We are continuing to see a high demand for RATs and the Ministry continues to assure people that we have good supply of tests. Yesterday, 34,000 RATs order were placed through the RAT requester site . Another 3.5 million RATs are being sent out to collection sites around the country today. A total of 8 million RATs are arriving into the country over the weekend. With tens of thousands of people collecting RATs from testing centres and collection sites, our request is to, please, be patient and kind to each other and staff. If you are symptomatic or a household contact, you can order RATs through the newly launched RAT requester site . You, or someone of your behalf, can collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint . Please only go to those sites that are listed as collection sites. Request RATs | covid19.health.nz (external link) RATs collection sites | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) The  priority for COVID-19 response for free RATs remains those who are symptomatic or a household contact. Please do not order or request RATs from testing centre or collections sites unless you are unwell or a household contact. International travel pre-departure testing is not covered under the public health response. If you are well, you can still purchase RATs from one of a growing number of retailers which stock them. Sadly, we are today reporting the death of a person in Auckland Hospital. The person had unrelated medical conditions and had tested positive for COVID-19. Our thoughts and condolences are with their person’s whānau and friends. Out of respect for privacy, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
17,522 new community cases 11 new cases identified at the border 696 cases in hospital 4,752 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 5,697 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- We would like to thank the many people who are reporting their Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) with more than 47,000 test results reported yesterday, of which 16,625 were positive. We would again urge people to self-report RATs results, even if it is negative. If you are a Household Contact please still report your RATs results separately, even if other household members have already reported theirs. The self-reporting of RATs helps provide a clearer picture of how the pandemic is progressing. It is essential we have as much information as possible to inform public health decision-making. If you take a RAT you can report the result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 between 8am and 8pm. We are currently increasing the number of staff available to meet the demand from people seeking to report RATs results via the phone. How to report your RAT result We are continuing to see a high demand for RATs and we continue to assure people that we have good supply of tests. Yesterday, 33,000 RATs order were placed through the RAT requester site . In the 4 days since the RAT Requestor went live, orders have given more than a million New Zealanders access to RATs. More than 8 million RATs arrived in the country over the weekend, and we currently have 9.7m in our central supply. If you are symptomatic or a household contact, you can order RATs through the newly launched RAT requester site . You, or someone of your behalf, can collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint . Please only go to those sites that are listed as collection sites. If you need RATs for other reasons, such as travel, they can be purchased at a growing number of retailers. Request RATs | covid19.health.nz (external link) (external link) RATs collection sites | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) With Omicron continuing to spread, your household may be affected soon if it hasn’t already. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will need to isolate while you recover from COVID-19. Others in your household will need to also isolate with you until the end of your isolation period. Stock up on supplies before there’s a COVID-19 case in your household. In addition, organise with friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs of food and supplies as needed and/or discuss your medication needs with your local pharmacist ahead of time. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. We are reporting 17,522 community cases of COVID-19 today. Care needs to be taken when interpreting daily reported cases, which are expected to continue to fluctuate. This means that the seven-day rolling average of cases gives a more reliable indicator of testing trends. The seven-day rolling average of cases is today 17,921, up from 17,272 yesterday. The number of cases and hospitalisations is a reminder of the importance of getting vaccinated and boosted. Being boosted greatly reduces the chances of getting severely ill and requiring hospital-level care if you contract COVID-19. Boosters offer a high level of protection against Omicron, so if it has been 3 months or more since your second dose of the vaccine, please get your booster. Yesterday, there were 5,697 booster doses administered. If you are out and about, remember to wear a mask. Masks reduce the risk that you will both catch and spreading the virus. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: getting a voucher to secure your place charges and exemptions facility locations what managed isolation is like --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders.
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: $3,100 for the first person in the room $950 for each additional adult sharing the room $475 for each additional child (aged 3 to 17 years) sharing that room. There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Any New Zealander who is currently overseas and enters New Zealand after the regulations come into force for less than 90 days will be liable for charges, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Any New Zealander who leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force (for example for a holiday or business) will be liable for charges when they return, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Everyone entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker will have to pay. In many cases, their employers will pay their managed isolation and quarantine costs. Other temporary visa holders are liable for the charges, unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand at the time the border closed and departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Partners, dependent children and legal guardians who are isolating or travelling with someone who is exempt from paying charges, unless they are entering under a critical worker border exception. Someone in New Zealand who goes into managed isolation to care for a person who is exempt from charges. Anyone travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the person convicted of the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees, including claimants, protected persons and applicants under the special immigration category for victims of domestic violence, when they enter New Zealand for the first time. Anyone entering New Zealand after a medical air transfer or rescue at sea. Patients travelling as part of the Ministry of Health High Cost Treatment Pool or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade New Zealand Medical Treatment Scheme. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau who are travelling to New Zealand for medical treatment. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau, travelling from a third country through New Zealand (staying less than 90 days) in order to return to the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau (staying at least 90 days). People being deported to New Zealand, defined as “returning offenders” (in the Returning Offenders (Management and Information) Act 2015) and any New Zealand citizen deported from Australia. Diplomats and consular staff, including their families, and official government representatives. Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: a New Zealander entering managed isolation because they left New Zealand to accompany a vulnerable or disabled person back to New Zealand someone needing to travel to or from New Zealand to receive medical treatment other compassionate grounds, including when a person has travelled to visit a seriously ill or dying close relative or attend a funeral or tangihanga, whether in New Zealand or overseas. People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice.
The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks
Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 897 updates 06 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 05 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 04 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 03 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 03 Mar 2022 Rapid antigen tests can be ordered through a new website and picked up from a collection site. 02 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 01 Mar 2022 New Zealanders will soon be able to access a third type of COVID-19 vaccine. 01 Mar 2022 The first payments from the new COVID Support Payment have gone out today after applications opened yesterday. 01 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 28 Feb 2022 The Government is removing the self-isolation requirements for vaccinated travellers to New Zealand and enabling Kiwis to come here from the rest of the world.
Displaying 21-30 of 897 updates 28 Feb 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 28 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 27 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 26 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2022 Over the past 2 days, 5.2 million Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) arrived in the country as we move to the next phase of the Omicron response. 25 Feb 2022 The new targeted COVID Support Payment (CSP) will provide additional certainty for businesses struggling with the Omicron outbreak. 25 Feb 2022 The Government is ensuring schools and kura are prepared for Omicron, with access to masks and rapid antigen tests where needed. 24 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 24 Feb 2022 Ministers have confirmed a move to the next phase of the Government’s Omicron response from 11:59pm on Thursday, 24 February.
Displaying 31-40 of 897 updates 24 Feb 2022 COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins and Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield announce the next steps in the response to the Omicron outbreak. 23 Feb 2022 Rapid antigen tests (RATs) will be used as the primary test at Auckland community testing centres from today to help meet demand as the Omicron outbreak grows. 23 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 22 Feb 2022 Extra support is being made available to Māori and Pacific communities as they continue to face the impact of the current Omicron outbreak. 22 Feb 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 22 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 21 Feb 2022 A new targeted COVID Support Payment will be made available for businesses struggling with revenue during the Omicron outbreak. 21 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 19 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 897 updates 18 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 18 Feb 2022 One-way quarantine-free travel to New Zealand will be extended to include Nauru, Tuvalu and American Samoa. 18 Feb 2022 The Government is standing up additional support to help people and whānau who have to self-isolate access the services they need. 18 Feb 2022 New Zealanders have rolled up their sleeves in droves as part of The Big Boost nationwide call to action – but we are not done yet. 17 Feb 2022 More than 3 million Rapid Antigen Tests have been distributed across NZ for workers who keep critical services moving and those in our communities most at risk. 17 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 16 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 16 Feb 2022 Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield leads a briefing to provide more detail on home isolation in Phase 2 of the Omicron response. 16 Feb 2022 The best thing New Zealanders can do as we move into Phase 2 of our response to the Omicron variant of COVID-19 is get boosted and give each other some space. 15 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 897 updates 15 Feb 2022 Traveller requirements released today mark another milestone towards the reopening of our international border. 14 Feb 2022 Due to increasing COVID-19 cases, Tonga does not currently meet criteria to be eligible for quarantine-free travel (QFT) into Aotearoa New Zealand. 14 Feb 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 14 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 14 Feb 2022 All DHBs have completed a key part of preparations for Omicron with the roll out of boosters to staff and residents in all aged residential care facilities. 13 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 12 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 11 Feb 2022 The exciting milestone has been reached, with the 'Big Boost' campaign continuing this weekend, encouraging boosters for those eligible. 11 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 10 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 851-860 of 897 updates 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health.
Displaying 861-870 of 897 updates 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks.
Displaying 871-880 of 897 updates 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody.
Displaying 881-890 of 897 updates 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
Displaying 891-897 of 897 updates 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- Monday 14 March: We will not be streaming today's post-Cabinet press conference as it is not a COVID-19 update. Tuesday to Friday: Media conferences are at 1pm. We will update this page if the schedule changes. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 11 March 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 10 March 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 9 March 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 8 March 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 4 March 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm.
Home News and data Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation (MIQ) requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation (MIQ) requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home News and data Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know When to wear a mask Check your symptoms Make a plan for self-isolation Mental health support Report false information --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand is now in Phase 3 of the response to Omicron. How we manage COVID-19 in the community has changed. Traffic light settings remain in place. How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. As Omicron cases rise, we all need to be prepared to self-isolate if you get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. As Omicron cases rise, we all need to be prepared to self-isolate if you get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. --- Section Separator --- Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. Then follow COVID-19 restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. Then follow COVID-19 restrictions. --- Section Separator --- A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life. --- Section Separator --- Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Our response to Omicron --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. All of New Zealand remains at Red. There are no changes to the traffic light settings or face mask rules. About life at Red Advice for businesses at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19 . Rapid antigen tests ( RATs ) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can now order a RAT online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. We are encouraging everyone to record their RAT result — e ven if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or bu calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result You are only required to isolate if you: have tested positive for COVID-19 are a Household Contact Close contacts no longer need to isolate, but they should monitor their symptoms for 10 days. If symptoms develop, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting tested. Use our tool to find out if you need to self-isolate Positive cases and their Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days, from the day you get a positive test result, or from when you start experiencing symptoms — whichever is earlier. Household Contacts must start isolating from the same day as the positive case. How to work out your 7 days of self-isolation How to self-isolate If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form, which will help identify high-risk locations and people you have come into close contact with. If you do not have access to a mobile, you will be contacted by a contact tracer, or a primary care, Māori, iwi or Pacific health provider. If you have COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you are a Household Contact. You will need to: self-isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or is notified as a probable case until they complete their 7 days of isolation. get a test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you are a Household Contact and you test positive, your 7 isolation period will restart from the day you test positive. If your Day 7 test is negative, you can leave isolation if you do not have any symptoms. Critical workers who are Household Contacts will still be able to use daily RATs to return to work before their 7 day isolation period is up under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Household contacts If you are a household close contact | covid19.health.nz (external link) Critical workers Testing and returning to work during Omicron — information for critical workers | business.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19, you can leave isolation after 7 days if y ou do not have any symptoms —  you do not need a negative test. If you are a Household Contact and your Day 7 test is negative, you can leave isolation if you do not have any symptoms. If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. Case investigations will instead be focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts. Locations of interest It is important to continue scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you have scanned in, you can upload your digital diary to the online contact tracing form. This will make it easier for you to identify people you may have been in contact with, and to tell them that you have tested positive for COVID-19. You should also keep your Bluetooth on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Businesses still need to continue to display their NZ Tracer app QR code, and provide an alternate method for people to record their visit. If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. Get your booster. If you have children aged 5 to 11, get them vaccinated. Mask, scan, pass everywhere you go. Keep up healthy habits such as washing hands, physical distancing and staying home if you are sick. Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children and young people Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. All of New Zealand remains at Red. There are no changes to the traffic light settings or face mask rules. About life at Red Advice for businesses at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19 . Rapid antigen tests ( RATs ) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can now order a RAT online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. We are encouraging everyone to record their RAT result — e ven if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or bu calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result You are only required to isolate if you: have tested positive for COVID-19 are a Household Contact Close contacts no longer need to isolate, but they should monitor their symptoms for 10 days. If symptoms develop, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting tested. Use our tool to find out if you need to self-isolate Positive cases and their Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days, from the day you get a positive test result, or from when you start experiencing symptoms — whichever is earlier. Household Contacts must start isolating from the same day as the positive case. How to work out your 7 days of self-isolation How to self-isolate If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form, which will help identify high-risk locations and people you have come into close contact with. If you do not have access to a mobile, you will be contacted by a contact tracer, or a primary care, Māori, iwi or Pacific health provider. If you have COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you are a Household Contact. You will need to: self-isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or is notified as a probable case until they complete their 7 days of isolation. get a test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you are a Household Contact and you test positive, your 7 isolation period will restart from the day you test positive. If your Day 7 test is negative, you can leave isolation if you do not have any symptoms. Critical workers who are Household Contacts will still be able to use daily RATs to return to work before their 7 day isolation period is up under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Household contacts If you are a household close contact | covid19.health.nz (external link) Critical workers Testing and returning to work during Omicron — information for critical workers | business.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19, you can leave isolation after 7 days if y ou do not have any symptoms —  you do not need a negative test. If you are a Household Contact and your Day 7 test is negative, you can leave isolation if you do not have any symptoms. If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. Case investigations will instead be focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts. Locations of interest It is important to continue scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you have scanned in, you can upload your digital diary to the online contact tracing form. This will make it easier for you to identify people you may have been in contact with, and to tell them that you have tested positive for COVID-19. You should also keep your Bluetooth on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Businesses still need to continue to display their NZ Tracer app QR code, and provide an alternate method for people to record their visit. If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. --- Section Separator --- Get your booster. If you have children aged 5 to 11, get them vaccinated. Mask, scan, pass everywhere you go. Keep up healthy habits such as washing hands, physical distancing and staying home if you are sick. Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children and young people Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all traffic light settings. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Get your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease severe mental illness — including schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, bipolar or schizoaffective disorder. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking | health.govt.nz (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. Parental leave | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find more information about maternity care on the Ministry of Health website. Pregnant people and those who have recently given birth | health.govt.nz (external link) In the traffic light settings there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. You should keep up healthy habits and keep away from people you do not know. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep your distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep your distance from others. You must wear a face mask at some places. You can ask people to drop off supplies at your door. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. Healthy habits The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to basic needs at Red Access to basic needs at Orange Access to basic needs at Green --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all traffic light settings. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Get your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease severe mental illness — including schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, bipolar or schizoaffective disorder. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking | health.govt.nz (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. Parental leave | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find more information about maternity care on the Ministry of Health website. Pregnant people and those who have recently given birth | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- In the traffic light settings there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. You should keep up healthy habits and keep away from people you do not know. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep your distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep your distance from others. You must wear a face mask at some places. You can ask people to drop off supplies at your door. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. Healthy habits The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to basic needs at Red Access to basic needs at Orange Access to basic needs at Green --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha — first found in the United Kingdom Beta — first found in South Africa Gamma — first found in Brazil Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. However, as Omicron is so new, more data is needed to understand how it has spread so quickly. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Reports suggest that, compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible may cause similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms, though could still pass the virus on to others does not result in as many people being hospitalised, however because of the high number of people with Omicron, hospitalisations have risen steadily can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who have underlying health conditions. COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Tocilizumab Remdesivir Molnupiravir Ronapreve Baricitinib. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing all potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha — first found in the United Kingdom Beta — first found in South Africa Gamma — first found in Brazil Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. However, as Omicron is so new, more data is needed to understand how it has spread so quickly. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Reports suggest that, compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible may cause similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms, though could still pass the virus on to others does not result in as many people being hospitalised, however because of the high number of people with Omicron, hospitalisations have risen steadily can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who have underlying health conditions. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Tocilizumab Remdesivir Molnupiravir Ronapreve Baricitinib. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing all potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe COVID-19 support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. I am looking for... Communication and language support Financial support Contact us Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in  your life. --- Section Separator --- Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It's OK to ask for help. Find support and tips for how to cope. Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe. For many people, COVID-19 has meant changes to their job. If you can't work, find out about what support you could get. --- Section Separator --- Support is available from different communities. Find out where you can go. Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. We're on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Basics of COVID-19 Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19, so that we all get back to doing the things we love. --- Section Separator --- There are easy steps we can all take to help keep us healthy, like getting vaccinated, wearing a face mask and scanning when we go places. It helps to understand why we're all doing this: to protect ourselves and everyone around us.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Education Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. --- Section Separator --- You might need to study at home if you are self-isolating, waiting for a COVID-19 test result, or do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Being at home can make it hard to focus on school work, especially when everyone else is at home too. Studying can be stressful, but there are techniques you can use to cope. The Lowdown has advice. Study stress | The Lowdown (external link) You can get help and tips about preparing for NCEA Maths, Sciences and English exams at StudyIt. You can post an NCEA exam question on its discussion forum and a teacher/facilitator will respond. StudyIt | studyit.govt.nz (external link) Auckland University has tips for studying at home, including staying active, keeping in touch with friends, and making to-do lists. Tips for studying at home | Auckland University (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Feeling worried about COVID-19 It's OK to feel a bit worried or overwhelmed about COVID-19 and what it means for you. You can ask for help if you need it. --- Section Separator --- Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It is OK to ask for help. There are many places you can get help. Here's some especially for rangatahi. Life can be pretty stressful sometimes and our thoughts can bring us down. Melon has techniques on how to accept yourself, build confidence and manage your emotions to help you get through. Melon | melonhealth.com (external link) Voices of Hope has lots of techniques to help with your mental health. Voices of Hope on Instagram (external link) Feeling stressed or anxious about COVID-19 is normal for a lot of us. The Lowdown has tips on how to handle stuff, like deep breathing, doing something active, and staying connected to your mates. The Lowdown | lowdown.co.nz (external link) Everyone has mental health. Learning how to look after your mental health creates ‘Mental Wealth’. Make yourself rich in mental wealth so you can spend it on taking care of yourself and others. MentalWealth | mentalwealth.nz (external link) Youthline provides a free Helpline service, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to young people, whatever is going on for you. Contact by text, phone, webchat and email. Youthline | youthline.co.nz (external link) We've got a bigger list on this website. Looking after your mental health (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Support for communities Share and connect with others who are going through the same stuff as you.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Your job and COVID-19 Your job might have changed because of COVID-19. Find out what support is available and what to do next.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people This section contains information about COVID-19 and vaccination for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3, if your support worker becomes a Household Contact, they may be eligible to return to work and continue to support you as a critical worker under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Support workers will only be allowed to go to their place of work with you — not anywhere else. More information if you employ your own support worker and what you need to do | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children Find an accessible vaccination centre near you Where to get your tamariki vaccinated If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster online now through Book My Vaccine (external link) . Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- Getting a COVID-19 vaccine protects you, your whānau and your community. The vaccine teaches your body how to fight the virus. It will protect you from getting very sick if you do get COVID-19. It protects your whānau and friends because you are less likely to pass COVID-19 on to people around you. --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter venues like cafes, bars and gyms and go to events. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass: online using My Covid Record (external link) calling 0800 222 478 — 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. in person at a vaccination site like a pharmacy. If you need help, call 0800 28 29 26 and press 2 to speak to the disability team. Once you get your pass, save it on your phone, or print it out and keep it in a safe place. Remember to take your My Vaccine Pass with you wherever you go. How to get your My Vaccine Pass Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Fully accessible vaccination centres Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- Omicron and the booster dose — Your questions answered Why it's important for disabled tamariki to get the COVID-19 vaccine Our vaccination journey — Victoria and Arlo My vaccination journey — Nick My vaccination journey — Cyrus What to expect if you have a needle phobia --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.7 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- You now need to wear a face mask in most indoor places. This includes at schools and kura for tamariki (children) who are in Year 4 and up. Where you need to wear a face mask We know that for many disabled people, wearing a face mask is unsuitable and you are exempt. Businesses may check if you are exempt from wearing a face mask — but they should be kind and considerate towards you. If you are having trouble communicating with someone who is wearing a face mask, you can ask them to remove it during your conversation. Who does not need to wear a face mask Schools should support parents of disabled tamariki if their child needs an exemption from wearing a face mask. Mask advice | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is okay to be worried about COVID-19. If you feel like this, it is important to look after your mental health. Talking to someone can help your mental health. You can talk to someone that you trust like a friend, family member, carer, support worker or a doctor. Look after yourself by eating healthy food, getting a good night's sleep, or going out for exercise. Stay connected with your whānau and friends. You can also keep in touch with them by phone, through social media or video calls. There are websites you can visit and phone lines you can call if you need help. Check our the free services and resources available to you If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to get financial assistance. Financial support for individuals and whānau It is important that you continue to access the disability services you need. Talk to your care provider to find out if there any changes to how you access any services because of traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Marae guidance at Red Marae guidance at Orange Marae guidance at Green --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- 0800 Ola Lelei – 0800 652 535 Check out the range of free services and resources available to you --- Section Separator --- It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping to keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- You can keep yourself and those around you safe after you leave managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) by keeping up healthy habits. This is especially important for the 7 days after you leave MIQ. Keep up healthy habits after you leave MIQ (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- You can find QR code posters at many locations you visit. Scan these using the NZ COVID Tracer app to create a private digital diary of the places you visit. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. You can also turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you have been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for you to record that you have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. Locations legally must have more than one way for you to record your visit, especially if you are not able to scan QR codes. Ways you will be able to record your visit include: scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app providing your details to the location filling in your details on a slip of paper to put in a collection box using a location's existing record-keeping systems, such as swipe-card access or appointment bookings. Businesses still need to continue displaying a QR code poster even if it is not required to collect customer records. Record keeping and contact tracing for businesses Get your QR code poster
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: scan QR codes to create a private digital diary of the places you visit — the more we scan the safer we will be use Bluetooth tracing to keep an anonymised record of the people you have been near — turn it on under the 'Dashboard' section register your contact details in the 'My data' section so contact tracers can get in touch if they need to How to register your information (external link) save your National Health Index (NHI) number in the 'My data' section to speed up the process if you need a test Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link) add more details after you have scanned a QR code in the text box, such as who you are with or what you were doing — it is a great way to keep track of friends or whānau who do not have the app add a manual entry if you cannot scan a QR code — you can view and edit your diary at any time use a previous scan to manually backfill your diary save locations you go to frequently. --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you have been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you have been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you have been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some places you visit will have tags that you can tap with your phone to create a diary entry. You can do this instead of scanning the QR code. This is called Near Field Communication (NFC). NFC uses the same technology as contactless payments or tapping on and off your bus. You can only tap in with NFC if the place you are visiting has NFC tags available. If they do not, just scan their QR code like usual. The Ministry of Health has more information about NFC, which phones have this capability, and how to order tags for your business. NFC tags for NZ COVID Tracer | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get information about the NZ COVID Tracer app in other languages and alternate formats.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask Keep track of where you have been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can, and there are some places where you must wear one. --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are indoors. The exceptions are at your home or your place of work if it is not public facing. Your employer may encourage you to wear a face mask even if your job is not public facing. When it is hard to physically distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face mask. Everyone must wear a mask that is attached to the face by loops around the ears or head. This means people can no longer use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts as face coverings. Types of face masks You do not need to wear a mask when exercising. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons when you are at a gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space in the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport and at arrival and departure points, this includes Cook Strait Ferries and school transport but does not include designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a healthcare service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask on domestic flights. You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Workers who are mandated to be vaccinated will need to wear a medical grade mask when working in public facing roles. This includes food and drink businesses, close-proximity businesses, gyms, events and gatherings, and teachers of students in Years 4 to 13. You can take your face mask off to eat or drink. You do not need to wear a face mask in non-public facing workplaces. However,  employers can apply their own policies for mask use. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors. Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask How to make a face mask --- Section Separator --- Our rules for wearing face masks have changed. Most people can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. Workers who are mandated to be vaccinated must wear a medical-grade face mask when working in public-facing roles. In this case, you cannot wear a fabric face mask. When you must wear a face mask Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Our rules for wearing face masks have changed. Most people can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. Workers who are mandated to be vaccinated must wear a medical-grade face mask when working in public-facing roles. In this case, you cannot wear a fabric face mask. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Types of face masks --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp. A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: your level of infection risk how well the face mask fits you the filtration ability of the material comfort. However, any face mask is better than no face mask. You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing together with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks are not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp. A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: your level of infection risk how well the face mask fits you the filtration ability of the material comfort. However, any face mask is better than no face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing together with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. --- Section Separator --- Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. --- Section Separator --- Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly --- Section Separator --- These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks are not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at a gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at a gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it.
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Get the facts You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines questioned answered | covid19.govt.nz Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | health.govt.nz (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua | karawhiua.nz (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch COVID-19 vaccine educational videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine works. COVID-19 information from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples | mpp.govt.nz (external link) Your local district health board (DHB) has information about health and disability services in your region, including information on vaccinations. District health board websites | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also keep up to date by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre | immune.org.nz (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization | who.int (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Check if the information is false. You can do this by going to reliable sources above. Acknowledge their concerns and fears. Do not mock them for having fears or vaccine concerns. Decide if it is best to engage directly. It may be best to send them a message or talk to them privately about what they have said. If they have posted on social media and are getting a lot of interest you may want to report it to the platform. You have the option to remain anonymous. Try to find areas you can both agree on. If the person you are engaging with gets defensive and you feel that it is no longer constructive, it may be best not to proceed. Share accurate resources. If we share accurate, verified information we might encourage others too. Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Report false or misleading information If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook.com (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube.com (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter.com (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram.com (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — WhatsApp.com (external link) Report a problem — TikTok.com (external link) Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite against COVID-19, or your district health board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm What is misinformation and online harm? There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 kinds of misinformation: Mis-information: Information that is false, but not created with the intention of causing harm. Dis-information: Information that is false and was created to harm a person, social group, organisation or country. Mal-information: Information that is based on reality, used to inflict harm on a person, organisation or country. You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. --- Section Separator --- Harmful online content includes cyberbullying and inappropriate material, such as violent and sexual material that can cause emotional and physiological distress. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when someone uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: abusive and hurtful messages, images or videos repeated unwanted messages spreading gossip and lies fake accounts used to humiliate or harass someone excluding others online embarrassing pictures, videos, websites, or fake profiles sharing personal or identifying information about someone without their consent (doxxing) Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Make a plan with your whānau if you need to isolate. Set up a su pport network. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything droppped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. Make sure you have basic medical supplies like pain relief , a thermometer and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. Plan for who can safely deliver essential supplies — like food and groceries , if you have to isolate. (external link) If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket , or to pick up essential supplies , like medication . Y ou will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home.  For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything droppped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit — with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies — like pain relief, a thermometer , nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. If you are isolating and need medicines, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange medication to be delivered to you, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone ’ s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatm ates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom . Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces . Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your wh ānau can do to help pass the time . Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online , so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster for at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- Make a plan with your whānau if you need to isolate. Set up a su pport network. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything droppped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. Make sure you have basic medical supplies like pain relief , a thermometer and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. Plan for who can safely deliver essential supplies — like food and groceries , if you have to isolate. (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket , or to pick up essential supplies , like medication . Y ou will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home.  For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything droppped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit — with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies — like pain relief, a thermometer , nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. If you are isolating and need medicines, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange medication to be delivered to you, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone ’ s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatm ates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom . Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces . Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your wh ānau can do to help pass the time . Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online , so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster for at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Wellbeing helplines and support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. I am looking for... Contact us Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available.
Home Prepare and stay safe When to call for help --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help

Home Testing and tracing Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know When you should get tested Household Contacts Keep track of where you have been Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Fast and effective contact tracing helps us prevent the further spread of COVID-19. It is important to continue to keep track of where you have been and who you have been with. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the easiest way to do this. When you have COVID-19, you will be asked to fill in a form to help notify your Close Contacts and identify any high-risk exposures. You will be able to share your NZ COVID Tracer app's digital diary and Bluetooth data to make this easier. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Find out what different types of contacts need to do while we are in Phase 3 of our Omicron response. You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Find out what different types of contacts need to do while we are in Phase 3 of our Omicron response. You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3 of our Omicron response, Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. If you are part-way through your isolation period, you can stop isolating. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard a yellow notification on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard if you scanned in at a location of interest your employer or school. You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3 of our Omicron response, Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. If you are part-way through your isolation period, you can stop isolating. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard a yellow notification on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard if you scanned in at a location of interest your employer or school. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are no longer required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. Workers should talk to their employer if they think they meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Find out more about getting a RAT as a critical worker | health.govt.nz (external link) Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services like health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. --- Section Separator --- During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are no longer required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. Workers should talk to their employer if they think they meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Find out more about getting a RAT as a critical worker | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services like health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3 of our Omicron response, Household Contacts must self-isolate and get tested. If you live with someone who has COVID-19, you can find guidance and advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. A Household Contact is considered to be someone who: shares a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, and has spent at least 1 night or day in that residence while the case was infectious. These people are not considered Household Contacts, but may be Close Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Partners who do not live with the person who has COVID-19 but may have spent a night together. Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: self-isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or is notified as a probable case until they complete 7 days of isolation get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to self-isolate How to get a COVID-19 test If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You can complete your isolation at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact of someone with COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3 of our Omicron response, Household Contacts must self-isolate and get tested. If you live with someone who has COVID-19, you can find guidance and advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. A Household Contact is considered to be someone who: shares a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, and has spent at least 1 night or day in that residence while the case was infectious. These people are not considered Household Contacts, but may be Close Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Partners who do not live with the person who has COVID-19 but may have spent a night together. Advice for Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: self-isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or is notified as a probable case until they complete 7 days of isolation get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to self-isolate How to get a COVID-19 test If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You can complete your isolation at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact of someone with COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household members --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who is has tested positive for COVID-19. Household Contacts You do not need to self-isolate if you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive their test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms and get a test if you develop any. If the person receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Household Contacts. You do not need to self-isolate if you live with a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if they develop, get a test. What type of contact are you? How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who is has tested positive for COVID-19. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive their test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms and get a test if you develop any. If the person receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Household Contacts. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you live with a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if they develop, get a test. --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. Contact tracing helps find out where someone might have caught COVID-19, and who else might have been exposed. These people become contacts. What type of contact are you? Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your household close contacts details of any high-risk locations and close contacts welfare needs. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can share your digital diary and your Bluetooth data. Completing the form is quicker than an interview — it only takes about 30 minutes. Once you have the text message, you can start anytime within 24 hours. If you do not start the form within 24 hours, someone will call and complete the case interview over the phone. You can find user guides on the Ministry of Health website: COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. When someone tests positive for COVID-19, they will either be interviewed or asked to fill in the contact tracing form. If they have used the NZ COVID Tracer app, it can give contact tracers all the information they need to: find where transmission came from find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. Different alerts can be sent from the app, warning people they have been exposed to the virus. If people scanned in somewhere that the person with COVID-19 has been at the same time, a yellow alert will appear on the app dashboard. If Bluetooth tracing is on, then an orange alert will appear on the app dashboard. If an alert is sent, anyone who gets an alert, should follow the advice on what to do. Find more information about the app, the different alerts and user guides on the Ministry of Health website: NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. Contact tracing helps find out where someone might have caught COVID-19, and who else might have been exposed. These people become contacts. What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your household close contacts details of any high-risk locations and close contacts welfare needs. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can share your digital diary and your Bluetooth data. Completing the form is quicker than an interview — it only takes about 30 minutes. Once you have the text message, you can start anytime within 24 hours. If you do not start the form within 24 hours, someone will call and complete the case interview over the phone. You can find user guides on the Ministry of Health website: COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. When someone tests positive for COVID-19, they will either be interviewed or asked to fill in the contact tracing form. If they have used the NZ COVID Tracer app, it can give contact tracers all the information they need to: find where transmission came from find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. Different alerts can be sent from the app, warning people they have been exposed to the virus. If people scanned in somewhere that the person with COVID-19 has been at the same time, a yellow alert will appear on the app dashboard. If Bluetooth tracing is on, then an orange alert will appear on the app dashboard. If an alert is sent, anyone who gets an alert, should follow the advice on what to do. Find more information about the app, the different alerts and user guides on the Ministry of Health website: NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Find out what different types of contact need to do while we are in Phase 3 of our Omicron response. --- Section Separator --- Social media tile: What type of contact are you? [PNG, 907 KB]
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. You should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT) if you test positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. You should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT) if you test positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. What you need to know When you need a test Where to get a test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results Getting your PCR test results If you test positive Information in other languages and alternate formats --- Section Separator --- A COVID-19 test is free if it is part of the public health response. This includes if you: have symptoms are a Household Contact are a critical worker and need a test to go to work are part of the healthcare and emergency service workforce require a test for domestic travel or to attend court do a job where mandatory testing applies have been told to get one by a health professional. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, talk to your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19, you need to get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts If you are a Close Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Advice for Close Contacts People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free test from their doctor or community health provider. They will decide which type of test is best for you. If you want to get a test for another reason — for example, because you are visiting friends or whānau — you can now buy a RAT at some retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 types of COVID-19 tests available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method being used now for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are a Household Contact. Results take about 20 minutes. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are still being used in some situations. Results take between 2 and 5 days. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Requesting RATs to use at home is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order. Online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am-8pm, 7 days a week) You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- Test instructions vary depending on the brand. Many rapid antigen testing kits follow the instructions below, but not all. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 719 KB] Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you get a positive test result, you must self-isolate immediately and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. Your test result does not need to be confirmed with a PCR unless advised. What steps to take if you have tested positive If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, it is likely you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms, stay at home and carry out another RAT the following day. If your symptoms get worse, contact your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . It is possible for someone with COVID-19 to get a negative RAT result. This can be because there was not enough virus in the sample, or because the test was not carried out correctly. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Log in and report your results through My Covid Record (external link) If you are having trouble using My Covid Record, call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take between 2 and 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. What steps to take if you have tested positive
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You can now report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 --- Section Separator --- You can now report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 --- Section Separator --- Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19
Home Testing and tracing Locations of interest The Ministry of Health will no longer publish locations of interest at Omicron Phase 3. --- Section Separator --- In Omicron Phase 3, the Ministry of Health will not publish new locations of interest. Case investigations will instead be focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts. With more people testing positive and hospitalisations rising, we are stepping up our response to Omicron. We are now in Omicron Phase 3 . Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If someone in your household tests positive, they should tell you. Many people who test positive will complete a self-investigation tool online — this tool may notify you if they said you are a contact. If you are a high-risk contact, contact-tracing teams may get in touch with you. An example of a high-risk contact is someone who visited a hospital or aged care facility. Household Contacts Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- Using the NZ Covid Tracer app is still important. It is a digital diary of where you have been, and will help you identify who you need to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. Even if your contacts do not have to legally isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. You should also keep your Bluetooth on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19.
Home Traffic lights The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. What you need to know Businesses and workplaces at Red When you must wear a mask Public and private gatherings at Red Cafes and restaurants at Red --- Section Separator --- Find out what traffic light settings are in place around New Zealand. Traffic light map --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This new approach to COVID-19 will introduce more freedoms for vaccinated New Zealanders. --- Section Separator --- The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings - Green, Orange and Red. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated reduces the likeliness of getting really sick, going to hospital or passing COVID-19 on to others. There are places where vaccination for workers is required, for example within the border, health, disability, education sectors, and at hospitality, events, gyms and close-proximity businesses. It is also required for businesses that are using My Vaccine Pass for their customers. The vaccination assessment tool is a legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. My Vaccine Pass is the official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Specified limits are based on 1 metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person (the number of people is limited by the space available). It does not mean people must remain 1 metre apart from others. Capacity limits include everyone in a defined space, excluding workers (paid and unpaid). A group of people that has people with and without My Vaccine Pass (excluding children), must follow the lower capacity limit specified for no My Vaccine Pass. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used to control high rates of transmission. The restrictions implemented will consider specific circumstances and the nature of the public health response. They could include: stay at home orders closure of premises, for example schools and retail restrictions on gatherings restrictions on movement in and out of the lockdown area. If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework summary table [PDF, 69 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework detailed table [PDF, 225 KB]
Home Traffic lights Life at Green At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Green, everything can be open. Remember — being vaccinated will give you greater protection. Many businesses and venues can choose to open with no restrictions on numbers if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. --- Section Separator --- You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits such as at home, places of worship, and marae can go ahead at Green. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits such as at home, places of worship, and marae can go ahead at Green. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Green. Some jobs require staff to be vaccinated. These include: border and managed isolation and quarantine workers health and disability workers education sector workers prison workers New Zealand Police (sworn members, recruits and authorised officers) New Zealand Defence Force (Armed Forces and civilian staff). Workers in businesses covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for employers and employees | employment.govt.nz (external link) Retail businesses and workplaces can choose whether they require My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as cafes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms must be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, must be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the vaccine pass requirements at the venue. You may be required to show your My Vaccine Pass to access the service. Shopping at Green Close-proximity businesses at Green Hospitality at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in the community. --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, or you are self-isolating because you have tested positive for COVID-19, your employer can apply for financial support for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education Early learning, schools and kura Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). --- Section Separator --- At Green, early learning centres, kōhanga reo, schools and kura can open with public health measures in place, for example, extra cleaning and keeping records of visitors to help with contact tracing. School events or activities like performances, cultural events, camps, sports practices, and interschool events can go ahead. At Green, playgroups can open if parents and staff are fully vaccinated. Parents and staff will be required to show their My Vaccine Pass when they are on site. If a playgroup chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, services will be restricted. Staff, visitors and parents and caregivers must stay 1 metre apart. Staff working at the playgroup must wear a face mask. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. Some OSCAR staff must be fully vaccinated. If staff are not fully vaccinated, it is up to the OSCAR programme provider to decide if they want to continue operating at Green, depending on public health advice. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are encouraged for all students indoors at school — but they are not a requirement. Face masks are also encouraged when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage parents, caregivers and other adult visitors to wear a face mask when visiting early childhood centres, schools and kura. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. All children and young people will soon be able to participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. Children and young people who are in a school-organised team, group or individual activity cannot be asked for a My Vaccine Pass and must be treated by the activity organiser or venue operator as if they were vaccinated. We will update this page when this rule comes into effect. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register must be kept. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household, they do not need to stay home from school or kura. They do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate: What happens if you test positive Household Contacts How to self-isolate Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face masks encouraged indoors. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Accommodation at Green Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear one on flights at Green. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Events Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Examples are: auctions cinemas stadiums concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities sporting events private galleries Advice on community sporting events If an event organiser chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to events held at both indoor and outdoor venues. You can serve food and drink, and attendees do not need to be seated at table to eat or drink. You can travel anywhere to attend an event. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to attend. If an event organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they can only have up to 100 people in a single defined space. Attendees must keep 1 metre apart. This applies to both indoor and outdoor events. If an event organiser is open to people with and without My Vaccine Pass, everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. You can move around when not eating or drinking. Customers at a cinema, theatre or stadium do not have to be seated at a table and are able to eat drink from their seats. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business or event. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All public facilities can open at Green. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools, and recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits such as at home, places of worship, and marae can go ahead at Green. --- Section Separator --- At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. --- Section Separator --- At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Funerals and tangihanga Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Green. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes. You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). There is no limit to how many people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If staff and whānau choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 100 people . Multiple groups of 100 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 100 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, another group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Green Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Marae at Green — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- At K ākāriki, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use the marae or attend gatherings manuhiri (visitors to the marae) need to wear a face mask Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. In practice this might look like 100 people in the wharenui, 100 people in the wharekai, 20 people on the ātea and 80 people waiting to be welcomed on. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass, but they are included in number counts where restrictions apply. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae — this can be either sighting the My Vaccine Pass, or verifying it with an app. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae can choose to spot check vaccine passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 100 people on the marae at a time — as long as groups who are fully vaccinated do not mix. In practice this might look like 50 people in the wharenui, 25 people in the wharekai including ringawera and 25 people on the ātea. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. --- Section Separator --- Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Green include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports street parades free public concerts in a park community fair funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae. Visiting friends and whānau at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green Gatherings at a marae at Green Community and social sport at Green --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to gatherings at your home, and gatherings at other venues. This also applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to operate with vaccine pass requirements: At a gathering at your home, there can be up to 100 people . At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. It includes children under 12, but does not include staff. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering, with no extra requirements. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, and you have hired the entire venue for your gathering, there are no extra requirements for serving food and drink. If you are unsure about what the requirements for your group might be, talk to the hospitality business to clarify. Advice for hospitality venues at Green --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. --- Section Separator --- Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Hospitality venues Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with. You do not have to be seated to be served. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Green Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements they must follow these restrictions. There can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. You will have to be seated and separated from other groups. This means you must remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. Dance floors are closed. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Green You must scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Green. You can use a moving company to relocate. If you are travelling between regions that are at different settings, follow the travel requirements. Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Green. You can hold and attend open homes, but there may be restrictions if My Vaccine Pass is not used. You can carry out property inspections. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) If you are travelling between regions that are at different settings to view properties, follow travel advice. Travel at Green If an open home or auction chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there, including at open homes or auctions. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend. If an open home or auction chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 100 people in a single defined space. Everyone attending needs to keep 1 metre apart. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access services that provide basic needs, such as food, healthcare and public transport. Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Green, with My Vaccine Pass.. You can have tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, inside your home at Green. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access services that provide basic needs, such as food, healthcare and public transport. Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Green, with My Vaccine Pass.. You can have tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, inside your home at Green.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Access to basic needs services Everyone is entitled to access services that provide basic needs, such as food, healthcare and public transport. --- Section Separator --- You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz. (external link) (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-10 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz. (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses Close-proximity businesses can open at Green, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Examples of close-proximity businesses include: barbers hairdressers beauty salons tattoo parlours driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, services will be restricted. Everyone must stay 1 metre apart except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Staff must wear face masks. Customers and clients are encouraged to wear a face mask. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Close-proximity businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity business advice | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Shopping Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All shops and services, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can operate at Green. Shops can choose whether they operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. Everyone will always be able to access essential services like food, regardless of their vaccination status. Access to basic need services If a retail shop provides a close-proximity service, like make-up application or clothes fittings, then they need to follow advice for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, inside your home at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Green. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. Tradespeople should keep a record of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home the customer's contact details. --- Section Separator --- Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: have been told to self-isolate are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test are unwell What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Sport and recreation You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Outdoor recreation can go ahead.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- At Green, you can do all your usual recreation activites. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can travel anywhere for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks can open. If the facility chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. If the facility chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they are limited to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing . This can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for gyms and indoor recreation facilities | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open with no limits with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Learn to swim classes can continue. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public swimming pools are not required to ask for your My Vaccine Pass. Public facilities at Green If you want to go to a private swimming pool that chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can be present. Find out how to get My Vaccine Pass If a private swimming pool chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they are limited to 100 people . This can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. You can use playground equipment and benches in public spaces. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Green. If the business organising the class chooses to f ollow vaccine pass requirements, you must show your My Vaccine Pass to participate. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to participate. Find out how to get My Vaccine Pass If the business organising the class chooses not to f ollow vaccine pass requirements, classes are limited to 100 people . They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby and group training sessions, can go ahead. There are no requirements for physical distancing while playing or watching sport. If the organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits to the number of people who can participate or attend as spectators. If the organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, community sports are limited to 100 people in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If you are playing at a large sportsground with multiple fields, you can have: multiple groups of spectators — as long as they are 2 metres from other groups, and multiple games running at once — as long as each group of players is 2 metres away from other groups. If you are playing in or watching sport at a controlled-access event, for example, an athletics competition at a stadium with controlled entry, then you must follow the rules for events. Events at Green --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at an arena, can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. This includes playing social sport with friends. If you are playing or watching sport at a venue that chooses to check vaccine passes, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people who can participate, or attend as spectators. We encourage you to wear a face mask when you are not playing. If the indoor sport venue chooses not to check vaccine passes, indoor sports are limited to 100 people in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass, and includes both participants and spectators. We encourage you to wear a face mask when you are not playing. If you are playing or watching sport at a controlled-access event, for example, a netball game that you need to buy tickets for, then you must follow the rules for events. Events at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can travel at Green, but you must wear a face mask on flights. Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can travel at Green, but you must wear a face mask on flights. Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All accommodation services can open. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses campgrounds backpackers seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation Accomodation providers can open to people with and without a My Vaccine Pass, with no restrictions. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Green Gatherings at Green Everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Cafes, bars and restaurants inside accomodation venues should follow the rules for hospitality businesses. Hospitality venues at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel anywhere at Green, but you must wear a face mask on flights. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. Do not travel if you are unwell. Some transport providers may ask you to show your My Vaccine Pass or provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Check with the operator before travelling. If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. There are no physical distancing requirements on transport services or in airports, train stations or bus terminals. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You are not required to wear a face mask on public transport. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand, KiwiRail and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a vaccine pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Check with the operator what its My Vaccine Pass or testing requirements are before you travel. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests will be available for travellers who are: over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and are from any part of New Zealand, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) You must wear a face mask on flights. We encourage you to wear a face mask in the terminal. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, people can continue to do everyday activities. There are restrictions to limit the spread of the virus and protect vulnerable people. But you can go to work, school, gyms, places of worship, restaurants, and many more places. Most businesses can open with no restrictions on numbers if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, and only allow people with My Vaccine Pass to enter. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. --- Section Separator --- You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, marae and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, marae and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. Most businesses and workplaces can choose whether they check My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms must be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, must be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are—whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding takeaway-only businesses), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you are a business owner or manager, now is the time to start thinking about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step by step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the My Vaccine Pass requirements at the venue. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Shopping at Orange Close-proximity businesses at Orange Hospitality at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Early learning and schools Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can open with My Vaccine Pass requirements, or by following the rules for close-proximity businesses. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you should not enter the venue as you are not allowed to be there. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. My Vaccine Pass Get Vaccinated Close-proximity businesses --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site. Parents and visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while on site, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face masks on public transport and school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We strongly encourage you to. A small number of staff, teachers and students are able to apply for an exemption. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. All children and young people will soon be able to participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. Children and young people who are in a school-organised team, group or individual activity cannot be asked for a My Vaccine Pass and must be treated by the activity organiser or venue operator as if they were vaccinated. We will update this page when this rule comes into effect. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register must be kept. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household, they do not need to stay home from school or kura. They do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate: What happens if you test positive Household Contacts How to self-isolate Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face masks in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face masks strongly recommended. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange with My Vaccine Pass. Examples are: auctions cinemas concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities private galleries sporting events stadiums. If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business or event. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits are based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at public facilities, excluding swimming pools. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange with no restrictions if everyone attending has My Vaccine Pass. Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange with no restrictions if everyone attending has My Vaccine Pass. Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes. You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. You can serve food and drink. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone has My Vaccine Pass. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you have My Vaccine Pass. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 50 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 50 people . Multiple groups of 50 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 50 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Orange Up to 50 people can view the tūpāpaku. The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Marae at Orange — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- At Karaka, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use the marae or attend gatherings manuhiri (visitors to the marae) need to wear a face mask. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Workers and volunteers at marae must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Orange Funerals and tangihanga at Orange If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae must check all vaccine passes but can choose to verify every few passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people in a single defined space on the marae at a time. These 50 people can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. The limit also includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of vaccinated and non-vaccinated people. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending places of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can gather with anyone at Orange, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Orange include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home or private dwelling club functions social sports street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae. More information about funerals and tangihanga at Orange More information about marae at Orange --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to how many people can be at the venue. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements: At a gathering at your home, there can be up to 50 people . At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. The limit includes children. It does not include staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue for your gathering, you do not need to follow the hospitality rules for the service of food and drink. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue. You do not have to be seated to be served. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only and should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Orange. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) During open homes and property inspections, we encourage you to keep 1 metre apart from other people at the property. There are no limits to the number of people who can attend. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange if you have a My Vaccine Pass. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Shopping at Orange Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face mask when you are visiting a shop. Everyone will always be able to access basic needs like food. Access to basic needs at Orange If you are a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the close-proximity rules. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople are required to wear a face mask when inside people’s homes, and to keep a record of where they go. --- Section Separator --- Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Orange, with restrictions. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Orange, with restrictions. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. You can travel anywhere for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open with vaccine passes and restrictions. If the facility chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open with vaccine passes and restrictions. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange If you want to go to a private facility that chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to the number of people who can be present. A private facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. If the business running the class chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, you must show your vaccine pass when you are at class. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If the business running the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to people with My Vaccine Pass only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing , in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. The capacity limit includes children, but not staff. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. If an indoor sport organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If the indoor sport venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing , in a single defined space at a venue at any time. They can be a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. The limit includes children, but not staff. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Orange. Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Orange. Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. Some accommodation may choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange Everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel anywhere for any reason at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Do not travel if you are unwell. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test, unless you are travelling with some transport providers Airlines and Cook Strait ferries If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. There are no physical distancing requirements on transport services or in airports, train stations or bus terminals. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken no more than 72 hours before your journey. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You must wear a face mask: on public transport at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: in taxis in ride-share vehicles We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. Learn more about life at Red: Gatherings and visits Travel Hospitality Education Sports and recreation Access to basic needs Shopping Close-proximity businesses --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. You will always be able to access basic needs services , such as food and healthcare. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason, and see friends and whānau. You must wear a face mask on flights, public transport, and taxis, in retail shops and public venues, and in health and education facilities. With My Vaccine Pass , most parts of life continue as usual. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are capacity limits and distancing requirements at some venues. Without My Vaccine Pass , there are restrictions. Workplaces and schools are open. Keep scanning QR codes and recordkeeping wherever you go. Keep physically distanced wherever possible. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, isolate immediately and call Healthline for advice. Download the COVID-19 Protection Framework summary [PDF, 69 KB] --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we are encouraging those who can, to work from home. If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | employment.govt.nz (external link) (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) Some critical workers may be able to return to work if they are a close contact, are fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out more about the close contact exemption scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning it with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Find out when you need your My Vaccine Pass Shopping at Red Close-proximity businesses at Red, like hairdressers and beauty salons Hospitality at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. There is no change under the COVID Protection Framework or traffic light system. New Zealand remains in the red light setting. To slow the spread of the disease, we’re also now encouraging those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, now is the time to start thinking about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) During the Omicron response, workers who at registered critical services who are a Close Contact may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out who a critical worker is Testing and returning to work during Omicron | business.govt.nz (external link) Most businesses can choose whether they use My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors, but there will be restrictions if they do not, including possibly needing to close. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are — whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons when you are at a gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space in the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Early learning, schools and kura at Red Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. --- Section Separator --- Children do not need to be vaccinated to attend a licensed early learning service, kōhanga reo, school or kura. All early learning centres, schools and kura can open. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Playgroups can only open with My Vaccine Pass requirements. All staff at education services must be vaccinated. All parents/caregivers and other visitors must wear a face mask indoors. All students aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 and up, must wear face masks indoors, on public and school transport, and when in close contact with others. All school staff and teachers teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Staff and students in Years 4 to 13 must wear face masks indoors at school. All parents/caregivers and visitors must wear a face mask indoors. Mask guidance | education.govt.nz (external link) All parents/caregivers and other visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can only open with My Vaccine Pass requirements. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must operate under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Types of mask --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo can open. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff  and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children attending early learning services do not have to wear masks on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. Types of mask --- Section Separator --- Schools and kura can open. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or above, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: indoors on public transport at all times on school transport. All ākonga aged 12 and up do not need to wear a face mask when: playing sport or engaging in recreational activities outdoors. Face masks for students must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and teachers must wear medical grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. This includes: indoors in classrooms and assemblies when accessing public venues at student health services on school transport. All parents/caregivers and other visitors must wear face masks on site. Wearing a face mask Mask guidance | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. All children and young people will soon be able to participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. Children and young people who are in a school-organised team, group or individual activity cannot be asked for a My Vaccine Pass and must be treated by the activity organiser or venue operator as if they were vaccinated. We will update this page when this rule comes into effect. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register must be kept. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household, they do not need to stay home from school or kura. They do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate: What happens if you test positive Household Contacts How to self-isolate Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Tertiary education at Red Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary institutions can open. Students with My Vaccine Pass can attend in person. Students without My Vaccine Pass should talk about alternative learning options. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas, and during teaching and learning. Do not go to any educational service if you are unwell, awaiting a COVID-19 test result or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary students with a My Vaccine Pass will be able to attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. Physical distancing is not required, though tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. Tertiary students who do not have My Vaccine Pass should talk to their provider about alternative learning options. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and during teaching and learning activities — unless you have an exemption. Masks must also be worn when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead. Events are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Children and babies are included in the event limits — but not people working at events. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated . Face masks should be worn at an event. Events staff and volunteers must wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Examples are: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. When food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated. You can move around when you are not being served or eating. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You should wear a face mask at an event. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face covering. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business or event. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open with capacity limits. Face masks must be worn, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for determining capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Gatherings are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Gatherings are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Defined spaces --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers at can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. All workers must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 100 people — if My Vaccine Pass is used. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 100 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits and using My Vaccine Pass at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers at can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. All workers must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 100 people — if My Vaccine Pass is used. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 100 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. --- Section Separator --- More information about gathering limits and using My Vaccine Pass at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Travel and accommodation Businesses and workplaces Hospitality venues Shopping and services Events and public facilities Education Moving, buying and selling your home Sport and recreation
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Faith-based gatherings You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings can go ahead. They are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. They are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers) at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: services at places of worship prayer group at home weddings funerals and tangihanga. Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 285 KB] --- Section Separator --- There are different restrictions on the number of people who can attend a faith-based gathering, depending on whether My Vaccine Pass is used. Workers (paid or unpaid) at a gathering — for example, the person leading the service and musicians — are not included in the gathering limits. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The limits apply to both indoor and outdoor venues. At all gatherings, you do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, mingle with others and dance. Faith-based gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 100 people . Faith-based gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 100 people , based on how many people can be there if everyone stands 1 metre apart. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 100 people. These limits include children under the age of 12 years and 3 months who cannot get a My Vaccine Pass. If the organiser of a faith-based gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes the people working at the gathering. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 25 people . Faith-based gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 25 people , based on how many people can be there if everyone stands 1 metre apart. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 25 people. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with gathering attendees. Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. When to wear a face mask Face mask exemptions Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. Unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Where face masks are required, these can be removed while eating and drinking. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. It is up to workers and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If the funeral or tangihanga is following My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the venue at any time, both indoors and outdoors. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 100 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If a venue chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 25 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not workers. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements—they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Defined spaces at Red Marae can choose whether to allow people without a My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If they are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 25 people . Multiple groups of 25 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 25 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Up to 25 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include workers who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks —  unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. If My Vaccine Pass is used, there can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. If My Vaccine is not used, there can be up to 25 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. Children, babies, whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers). Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if they are the only group using the defined space and other manuhiri cannot mix. --- Section Separator --- At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use marae or attend gatherings Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Defined spaces at Red Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae must check all vaccine passes but can choose to verify some passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. These 25 people can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask — for example — for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū. --- Section Separator --- He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have a gathering at Red, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Gatherings are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Gatherings are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red --- Section Separator --- There are different restrictions on the number of people who can attend a gathering, depending on whether My Vaccine Pass is used. Workers at a gathering — for example, a wedding photographer or a caterer at a private function — are not included in the gathering limits. There is no limit on the number of workers who can work at a gathering. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The limits apply to both indoor and outdoor venues. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, and dance. Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 100 people . Gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 100 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 100 people. These limits include children under the age of 12 years and 3 months who cannot get a My Vaccine Pass. If the organiser of a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes the people working at the gathering. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 25 people . Gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 25 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. Unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask when gathering in a private home. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- Friends and whānau can visit each other's homes at every traffic light setting. There may be restrictions on who can visit rest homes, aged care facilities, hospitals and healthcare facilities. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. --- Section Separator --- Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. You do not need to wear a face mask if you are visiting friends and whānau at their home, or hosting a gathering for them at your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. Learn more about when you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Weddings and civil unions at Red You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. --- Section Separator --- Weddings and civil union ceremonies can go ahead. They are limited to 100 people if My Vaccine Pass is used. They are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not workers, such as the celebrant or the photographer. You do not have to wear a face mask if you have exclusive use of a defined space for your wedding or civil union. Workers at the wedding or civil union must wear a face mask. You do not have to physically distance — this means you can dance and mingle. --- Section Separator --- There are different restrictions on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union, depending on whether My Vaccine Pass is used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The limits are the same for both indoor and outdoor venues. Workers (paid and unpaid) can include the celebrant, photographer, performers and catering staff. Friends and whānau participating in the ceremony are not included as workers. Workers are not included in the gathering limits for gatherings with My Vaccine Pass or without My Vaccine Pass. You can have 100 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. The 100 person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony. The limits include children under the age of 12 years and 3 months who cannot get a My Vaccine Pass. People working at the wedding or civil union ceremony must have a My Vaccine Pass. These are limited to a maximum of up to 100 people based on 1 metre physical distancing. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 100 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. You can have 25 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. They can be a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. The 25 person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony. These are limited to a maximum of up to 25 people based on 1 metre physical distancing. They can be a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 25 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if you have exclusive use of an indoor or outdoor defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony, f or example if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard . This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place, for example if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Performers, such as a band, do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. There can be up to 100 people, including children. Customers must be seated and separated from other groups. You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear face masks. Takeaway businesses can open. If a hospitality business chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs with My Vaccine Pass restrictions can open at Red. There can be up to 100 people, including children. The limit does not include workers. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to enter the premises. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. My Vaccine Pass may be checked at the door, or inside the venue. A business can look at your My Vaccine Pass or use the NZ Pass Verifier App to verify it. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter. You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear medical grade face masks. Wear a face mask Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Customers must be seated and separated from other groups. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Food and drink service guidelines | Business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality business chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only and should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red --- Section Separator --- Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services should follow the rules for retail. This includes businesses without My Vaccine Pass that can only provide takeaway services. Retail at Red Order ahead, either online or over the phone. Wear a face mask whenever you are outside your home. Prepay online, or use a contactless payment method, like PayWave. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, wash or sanitise your hands as soon as possible. You may be able to use reusable cups or containers. Check with the takeaway provider. Keep apart from others while waiting in a queue. Sign-in using the NZ Covid Tracer app. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. If you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can buy or sell your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Red. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) If the property owner or real estate agent chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Properties can have up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Defined spaces at Red If the property owner or real estate agent chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the property at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Defined spaces at Red Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Red. Close-proximity businesses can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Red. Close-proximity businesses can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- At every traffic light setting, you will be able to access basic needs such as food, healthcare and education. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses If you have a My Vaccine Pass, you can visit a close-proximity business, such as a hairdresser. --- Section Separator --- If you have a My Vaccine Pass, you can visit a close-proximity business, such as a hairdresser. You must wear a face mask when you visit a close-proximity business. Workers working at close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. If you are unwell, are isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, call and reschedule your appointment. --- Section Separator --- If you have a My Vaccine Pass, you can visit a close-proximity business at Red. Examples of close-proximity businesses are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists tattoo parlours. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. Advice for close-proximity businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. --- Section Separator --- If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you cannot visit a close-proximity business. Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Workers must wear face masks. You must wear a face mask when visiting a close-proximity business. You may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is having a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shopping Shops and retail outlets can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops and retail outlets can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. You must wear a face mask when visiting shops and retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces and capacity limits | business.govt.nz (external link) Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. You will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to stop you from shopping there based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red Examples of close-proximity businesses include hairdressers and beauty salons. If you are at a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the rules for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when visiting shops, outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask. Do not invite tradespeople into your home if you are unwell, are isolating, or waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside people’s homes, and keep a record of where they go. --- Section Separator --- Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: have been told to self-isolate are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test are unwell What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities with My Vaccine Pass requirements can open. Swimming pools with My Vaccine Pass requirements can open. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead but with capacity limits. Customers are not required to wear a face mask. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities, such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. Customers are not required to wear a face mask. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can have up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure a gym or indoor recreation facility complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. Public facilities at Red --- Section Separator --- Public swimming pools can open. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Red Indoor and outdoor swimming pools at private facilities with My Vaccine Pass requirements can open. This includes saunas and steam rooms. Learn to swim classes can continue. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. You do not need to wear a face mask at a swimming pool. Participants in classes do not have to physically distance. All other swimmers should keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Swimming can have up to 100 people . It is the responsibility of the facility to ensure a swimming pool complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red A private facility, such as a swimming pool at a gym, cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Red with restrictions. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Face masks are not required. Physical distancing is not required. Up to 100 people can be present, based on 1-metre distancing . If the business organising the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, the classes will be limited to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under the age of 12, but does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Physical distancing is strongly encouraged. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an outdoor recreation facility, follow the rules for: events at Red , or gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports events can go ahead. They are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. They are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. Defined spaces at Red The capacity limit does not include staff at the venue. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a defined space at the venue at any time. For example, a game of cricket with 11 players each side can go ahead. A group of spectators up to 25 people can be watching from the sidelines. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff at the venue. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Red with restrictions. If a venue for indoor sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. Defined spaces at Red My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If an indoor sports venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a defined space at the venue at any time. For example, a game of netball can go ahead. A group of spectators up to 25 people can be watching from the sidelines. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff at the venue. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face mask. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. Some accommodation services require you to have a My Vaccine Pass. Do not travel if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face mask if you are in a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you have stayed. --- Section Separator --- Some accommodation may choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: cabins campgrounds backpackers boarding houses hotels and motels seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red Everyone over the age of 12 years and 3 months must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask if you are in a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Do not travel if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services — unless you are exempt. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. --- Section Separator --- You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken no more than 72 hours before your journey. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations, bus stops and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport (school buses). When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- We are in Omicron Phase 3 . This means most people who have COVID-19 will be looking after themselves at home. At Omicron Phase 3, there are changes to how we manage testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, and support for people who test positive. It does not change the traffic light settings at Red. We will update this page if changes are introduced. Our response to Omicron — phase 3 How to self-manage COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out about requirements for travelling to, transiting, and departing New Zealand. International travel --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Resources for businesses to help them operate safely at each of the traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Having a QR code in a prominent place makes it easier for anyone visiting you to keep track of where they have been. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at Red, Orange and Green. --- Section Separator --- Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Having a QR code in a prominent place makes it easier for anyone visiting you to keep track of where they have been. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at Red, Orange and Green. --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes faster and easier. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Download and print posters to help keep your workplace safe — including posters to let your customers know if they need a My Vaccine Pass to enter. My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Get your QR code poster There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. --- Section Separator --- Before you start, you will need your: NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code address details for each of your locations email address You should only use the official NZ COVID-19 QR code poster issued by the Ministry of Health. This is so that visitors know that scanning the QR code links to NZ COVID Tracer app, and is for contact tracing purposes. --- Section Separator --- When you receive your QR code poster you should: print the poster display the poster somewhere visitors can see it and scan it when they arrive, for example next to the entrance ask visitors to scan the QR code when they arrive, using the NZ COVID Tracer app display as many posters as you need to, to avoid queues forming --- Section Separator --- Once you have your QR code, you can also order Near Field Communication (NFC) tags. They are even quicker to use than scanning a QR code: your customers can just hold their phone near your tag to automatically create a diary entry in their NZ COVID Tracer app. The Ministry of Health has more information about how NFC tags work, and how to order some for your business. NFC tags for NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. --- Section Separator --- When someone tests positive for COVID-19, contact tracers need to know where they have been while they were infectious. If a person who tests positive for COVID-19 has visited your business, contact tracers need to get in touch with you and notify people who were there at the same time. The faster that this can happen, the faster that contacts can isolate and get tested, and the more likely it is that we can stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If they scanned in, everything can go faster. Contact tracers can use the contact details you included when you signed up for your QR code poster to get in touch with you quickly, and let you know what to do next. If the person who tested positive did not scan in, contact tracers use the location name on your poster to try and get in touch with you, and quickly alert anyone who scanned in at the time the case was there. If it is hard to find the right location details, this takes longer – and sometimes we cannot find them at all. If you have multiple posters at your business with different details, we might not notify everyone who scanned in.
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses How to display a QR code poster Having a QR code in a prominent place makes it easier for anyone visiting you to keep track of where they have been. --- Section Separator --- You must display your QR code in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You must have additional QR codes available to scan in other places around your business — for example, at counters where people go up to pay, at the reception desk or in areas where customers and visitors regularly walk past. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. Your poster also needs to be in good condition so it is easy to scan for your customers and visitors. --- Section Separator --- print in A4 and in colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. crop or alter the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- You need a separate poster for each unique location. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they have been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Public transport services must display additional copies of QR codes in prominent places — such as windows to make it easier and more accessible for passengers to scan in. Public transport services that have less than 5 seats, taxis and ride-share vehicles only need to display one QR code. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. If you are organising an event or gathering, you can choose to have a QR code poster. Advice on record keeping and contact tracing
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Record keeping and contact tracing Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. --- Section Separator --- Record keeping involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace or location. If there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, public health officials and contact tracers will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. When businesses and event organisers keep records of who was at their workplace or location, it makes contact tracing faster and more efficient. Good record keeping and fast contact tracing will help stop the spread of COVID-19, and protect our businesses, communities and each other. --- Section Separator --- Many businesses and locations are now required to make sure people can easily keep a record of when they visit. This is a requirement at Red, Orange and Green. If you are the person in charge of a business, location or event, you legally must: make sure you have safe and secure systems and processes in place so that everyone working on or visiting your premises can scan in or provide their details for contact tracing keep contact tracing records for workers, contractors, customers, and volunteers, no matter how long they are there for keep a record of everyone aged 12 years or over who visits or works at your premises. You legally must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Your system for recording customers and visitors can include: asking people to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app recording your customers' and visitors' details manually providing paper forms for customers and visitors to fill in with their details and place in a collection box using your existing record-keeping systems, such as swipe-card access or appointment bookings. You still need to continue displaying your QR code poster even if you are not required to collect customer records. More information and advice on record keeping | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for customers and visitors to record that they have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. You must have ways to record a visit if you are: a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub a health service a close-contact personal care service — for example, a hairdresser or beautician an indoor exercise facility — for example a gym or swimming pool an entertainment venue — for example a cinema, stadium, theatre or casino an indoor public facility where people gather — museums or libraries a court or tribunal a social services provider with customer service counters — such as a Ministry of Social Development office organising a wedding, funeral, tangihanga or faith-based service organising a concert having a gathering or hui at a marae. At an event, for example a wedding or tangihanga, either the venue owner or operator, or the organiser/hirer of the venue can be the person who is responsible for making sure there are ways for people to record their visit. We still encourage you to keep contact tracing records and promote the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information about the NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Contact records are personal information. They need to be collected, used, stored, disclosed, and disposed of safely and securely in accordance with the Privacy Act 2020. The most secure way for customers and visitors to record their details is by scanning the NZ COVID Tracer app. If people cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you need to make sure that any alternative method you use for contact tracing protects people’s privacy, and that you only use the information they provide for contact tracing purposes. Alternative recording systems require more care to keep them safe and secure. Do not leave paper-based records out in the open where others can see the information. This is the leading cause of COVID-19-related privacy breaches. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner's website has practical guidance that will help you protect people's privacy when using alternative contact recording methods. Use a simple privacy statement alongside your alternative record keeping system to let people know why the information is needed and how long you need it for. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several ways you can make record keeping easier for you and your workers, customers and visitors. --- Section Separator --- If someone refuses to or is unable to scan in, you are not expected to force someone to provide their details, or to refuse them entry. Remember, some people may have their own way of keeping track of where they have been. It is up to you to decide what is appropriate for your premises and the wellbeing of your staff and other customers. --- Section Separator --- Download and print record keeping slips, stickers and a box template. You can also print posters to remind staff, customers and visitors to scan in. Resources --- Section Separator --- If you do not follow these record keeping requirements, you will be fined an infringement fee of $300 or a court-imposed fine of up to $1,000. Failing to display a QR code will continue to be an infringement offence carrying an infringement fee of $300 or court imposed fine of up to $1,000.
Home Traffic lights Traffic lights map Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do under each traffic light setting Life at Red Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link)