New Zealand remains at Alert Level 3. Find out what Alert Level 2 will mean, when we move to it. How to operate safely, get financial support and keep employees safe. Find ways to access financial support, food, medicine and transport. --- Section Separator --- Together we're uniting against COVID-19. If you're concerned that something may breach the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. How to report a breach --- Section Separator --- Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. The Government has released more information on how Alert Level 2 will work. Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. --- Section Separator --- Finance Minister Grant Roberson and Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay speak at the 1pm media conference. 8 May media conference 7 May media conference 6 May media conference 5 May media conference PM’s 4 May media conference Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speak at the 1pm media conference. 8 May media conference 7 May media conference 6 May media conference 5 May media conference PM’s 4 May media conference Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speak at the 1pm media conference. 8 May media conference 7 May media conference 6 May media conference 5 May media conference PM’s 4 May media conference Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speak at the 1pm media conference. 8 May media conference 7 May media conference 6 May media conference 5 May media conference PM’s 4 May media conference Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern speaks at the 4pm media conference. 8 May media conference 7 May media conference 6 May media conference 5 May media conference PM’s 4 May media conference --- Section Separator --- Māori | Te Reo Māori New Zealand Sign Language Arabic | عربي Bengali | বাংলা Simplified Chinese | 简体中文 Cook Islands Māori | Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Dari | دری Farsi | فارسی Fijian | Vosa Vakaviti Hindi | हिन्दी Indonesian | Bahasa Indonesia Japanese | 日本語 Kiribati | Te taetae ni Kiribati Korean | 한국어 Niuean | Vagahau Niue Pashto | پښتو Punjabi | ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Rotuman | Fäeag Rotųam Samoan | Gagana Samoa Somali | Af-Soomaali Spanish | Español Tagalog Thai Tokelauan | Te Gagana Tokelau Tongan | Lea Faka Tonga Tuvaluan | Te Gana Tuvalu Urdu Vietnamese --- Section Separator --- NZSL Easy Read Audio Large Print options --- Section Separator --- Make a difference by supporting friends, neighbours and whānau, especially those who are over 70 or vulnerable. Everyone should stay at home. This is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses such as influenza and do not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. Symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath. sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have these symptoms please call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or you can call your doctor immediately. If you're outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Call your doctor before visiting. Self-isolation and quarantine are both used to remove people who are ill and those who may be at higher risk of being ill, from other people for a short period of time to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The reasons you may need to be in self-isolation and quarantine may be because you are ill, or because you have specific risk factors that make you more likely to get ill. These include international travel and being a confirmed contact of someone with COVID-19. The guidelines for people under self-isolation and quarantine are stricter than for people at Alert Level 4 - for example, they cannot leave their home to go to the grocery store. Alert Level 4 requires everyone in New Zealand to stay home. However, people can still leave home to access essential services and to exercise. All of these actions together will help protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Staying home, whether it's under Alert Level 4, quarantine or self-isolation, saves lives If you can’t access food or essential items yourself or with the help of whānau, friends, iwi, neighbours or community providers, there is urgent assistance available. If you are not eligible for support from Work and Income and you don’t have a way to access essential supplies yourself, you can contact your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group (CDEM). However, if you have immediate urgent food needs then you should call your local CDEM Group directly. The service operates 7 days a week from 7am to 7pm. If you find yourself in this situation, please phone your local CDEM Group. The number for your local CDEM Group is on the National Emergency Management Agency website (external link) If you feel an earthquake: drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember long or strong: get gone. If you are advised to evacuate by authorities because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice. What to do in an emergency at any COVID-19 Alert Level If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. This will leave home delivery slots free for the people who need them most. Shops are doing their best to limit the number of shoppers – helping you keep 2 metres away from others. Here are some simple tips to follow when you go to the supermarket: Wash your hands before and after you shop. Come prepared with a list so you can get in and out as quickly as possible. If at all possible only send one person from your household to do the whole shop. You may need to take young children with you if there is no carer available. Keep 2 metres away from others, including staff – they need to keep safe too! Only touch what you want to buy. Be kind to essential workers, and others you’re sharing the shop with. More simple tips for when you go to the supermarket We want all consumers to be confident that prices are fair and equitable. If you think a business has unnecessarily increased its prices on essential goods or services, your first steps should be to ask the retailer the reason for the price increase, and work together to find suitable solutions. Information on increased prices and consumer rights during COVID-19 (external link) Report price increases online (external link) If you have concerns about a gathering of people, a non-essential shop or service that is open, anyone who is not self-isolating as required, or an event that breaches the criteria, you can report it to police online. Do not call 105. Reports will be prioritised based on risk. Report a breach online The Government is acting to support people in New Zealand through these changes with a $16.1 billion package that includes: a wage subsidy scheme. Previous cap of $150,000 per business removed leave and self-isolation support business cash flow and tax measures mortgage repayment holiday scheme for 6 months — via retail banks business finance guarantee scheme. Your usual financial support, such as benefits, will continue. More about COVID-19 support on the Work and Income website (external link) If over the following days and weeks you feel you are not coping, it’s important to seek help and professional support. Your family doctor is a good starting point. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can also call or text the 'Need to talk?' service on 1737 . This service is free, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and gives you the chance to talk it through with a trained counsellor. As an essential worker, you are playing a vital role in keeping New Zealand running during Alert Level 4. You may also be wondering if you need to be using personal protective equipment (PPE) in order to keep yourself safe during this time. The Ministry of Health has put together some tips for while you’re at work and at home. These are the most effective measures to protect you and those you live with. Read about PPE for essential workers (external link) The most important thing for you to know is that basic hygiene measures are the best defence against COVID-19. If you are unwell, you must not go to work, and must not return to work unless you are symptom free for 48 hours. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor if you feel unwell. Dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all alert levels. At Alert Levels 3 and 4, customers can only go into dairies and petrol stations on a one-in-one-out basis. At Alert Level 4, they cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked on-site. For example coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches, but they can sell food that has been prepared and packaged off-site by a supplier even if it needs heating, for example pies or sausage rolls. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but cannot be consumed by customers onsite. Guidelines for all businesses (external link)
New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what Alert Level 4 means for New Zealand. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, recreation, education, work, business, travel, gatherings, and staying safe and well. Information on what life and business will look like at Alert Level 2 when we move to it. Information about whether there is a state of national emergency in place and what this means. Together we're uniting against COVID-19. If you're concerned that something may breach the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what Alert Level 4 means for New Zealand. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, recreation, education, work, business, travel, gatherings, and staying safe and well. Information on what life and business will look like at Alert Level 2 when we move to it. Information about whether there is a state of national emergency in place and what this means. Together we're uniting against COVID-19. If you're concerned that something may breach the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre.
Home Alert System Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is still at Alert Level 3. You must continue to comply with all Alert Level 3 restrictions. Please stay home and save lives. What Alert Level 3 means for you We’ve united against Covid-19 and by continuing to work together we can earn the opportunity to move to Alert Level 2. When we move to Alert Level 2 we can leave our bubbles and reconnect with friends and family. We’ll move to Alert Level 2 when we’re confident there is no community transmission and that the disease is contained. When we do, we’ll have measures in place to track and stop any new transmission and stamp out any outbreaks. Cabinet is reviewing whether we are ready to move to Alert Level 2 on Monday 11 May. Until then, we remain at Alert Level 3. You will have more freedom of movement at Alert Level 2, but it’s up to each one of us to keep the rest of New Zealand safe. These are the most important things that you can do: COVID-19 is still out there. Play it safe. Keep your distance from other people in public. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have symptoms of cold or flu call your doctor or Healthline and get tested. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, regularly disinfect surfaces. If you have been told to self-isolate you must do so immediately. Keep a track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Life at Alert Level 2 means we can resume many of our everyday activities — but we have to do so safely. All businesses can open if they can do it safely. This will help to get people back to work. We can go in-store at local businesses. Tertiary education facilities, schools and early learning centres will be open. We can travel between regions. We can safely connect and socialise with close friends and family. We can visit local restaurants, cafes and bars. We can return to our regular recreation activities. We can celebrate life’s important moments with our loved ones such as weddings, funerals, birthdays and anniversaries. Small religious gatherings and ceremonies can be held with public health measures in place. Alert Level 2 is not life as normal, some restrictions and other measures remain in place to reduce the risk of transmission. We need to maintain physical distancing. We will keep tight controls in place at our borders. Our wide-scale testing will continue. We will find and self-isolate anyone who is unwell and their close contacts. There will be measures in place to allow some safe travel and socialising. Only small, controlled gatherings will be permitted. Early childhood centres, schools and tertiary organisations will see most people returning — with controls in place. Physical distancing, hygiene standards and contact registers will make businesses safe. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home to do more things, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Follow these physical distancing rules: Keep your distance in public from people you do not know (ideally 2 metres). 1 metre physical distancing in most other environments, unless there are mitigating measures. Examples of environments where you should maintain 1 metre distancing include cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and retail stores. Take extra care if you interact with people you don’t know as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. These situations include playgrounds, parks, shopping malls or walking along the street. There will be a few instances at Alert Level 2 where it won’t be practical to maintain physical distancing, so there will be other measures to manage public health risks. Examples include hairdressing, physiotherapists, home help, and public transport. You can attend gatherings of no more than 100 people, like weddings, funerals, family events, concerts, religious services and public meetings, provided public health measures (see conditions below) can be maintained. You can have friends and family over to your home, but play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands, and keep the numbers low so you can practice safe distancing. All gatherings outside of the home (indoors and outdoors) can have no more than 100 attendees, excluding staff like waiters. Indoor gatherings should be seated if possible, and should be approximately two hours long. Food and drink consumption is fine at gatherings, so you can have food at wedding receptions or after a funeral or tangihanga. It should be prepared carefully and served individually, for example, not from a buffet. Additional conditions on gatherings: Physical distancing and infection prevention and control requirements must be met. All gatherings should record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be conducted if necessary. Hospitality guidelines regarding alcohol consumption need to be strictly adhered to. You can’t participate in any gatherings or events if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation/quarantine for any reason. Many public venues, such as museums, cinemas, food courts and markets, will be open again at Alert Level 2. However, there will be restrictions in place including the requirement to keep groups of attendees 1 metre apart. This might require limiting the number of people inside at once. Some venues may stay shut if they can’t open safely. You can do your usual exercise, sport and recreation activities, provided you can do them safely. This includes activities that were restricted previously, including: walking, biking and hunting on public conservation land swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports hunting during duck shooting season — start date to be announced. You can play sports that involve close contact, but only if good contact registers, or contact tracing records are maintained for training and games. Make sure you know who you’re training and playing with, in case someone gets sick. No one should train or play if they have symptoms of COVID-19. For sports where it is possible to maintain physical distancing, such as tennis, you should try your best to keep 2 metres from other people. Detailed information on sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) NZ Super Rugby and ANZ Premiership Netball professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. The details for these events will be developed with Sport New Zealand and WorkSafe. Initially, they will happen without crowds but they can be broadcast. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. At Alert Level 2 businesses can operate if they’re able to do so safely. At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises if they can meet public health requirements. This means businesses should: have good contact registers, or contact tracing records, in place to record everyone who you interact with on your premises maintain physical distancing of 1 metre between groups of customers. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. This means that most businesses can open their premises to the public, including: bars and cafes hardware, gardening, and clothing retailers butchers, bakeries, and fishmongers. Hospitality businesses should keep groups seated, separated, and use a single server if possible. This means each group has one server, though servers can each serve more than one table. For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have measures like: have robust contact registers, or contact tracing records, in place maintain good hygiene practices minimise contact to the extent possible. Specific guidance for key sectors is being developed by the Ministry for Business, Innovation and Employment and WorkSafe. The key public health requirements stay the same at Alert Level 2. Businesses should maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. This means businesses that don’t normally have customers on their premises could continue to have staff work from home. If workers are sick with symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell Do everything you can to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work — we all have a part to play in keeping each other safe. COVID-19 is still out there. Play it safe. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are still encouraged where possible. Talk with your workers to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone, workers, contractors and customers, with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep groups of customers 1 metre apart. Keep contact-tracing records of anyone who will have close interaction (workers, contractors or customers). Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. COVID-19 is a disease you can spread without knowing you have it. You can travel around the country if you follow good personal health measures. You will need to keep records of what travel services you use and keep track of who you have been in contact with. You should keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know. You should minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. You must not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk while travelling: Try to limit taking public transport, or use at off-peak times. Avoid sitting next to someone you don’t know, or standing. If you’re flying or taking other forms of transport that involve bookings, follow the physical distancing instructions from your transport operators. You must not travel if you are displaying symptoms of COVID-19, awaiting a test, or if you need to self-isolate. Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities will all open at Alert Level 2. On the advice of public health officials, any educational facilities connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 must close on an individual or group basis to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days. All early learning centres and schools will be physically open including years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those unable to attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning services and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing as appropriate for the context, and will work closely to ensure a safe environment where students can continue their learning.  They will need to maintain distance learning capability to help manage within these constraints, and ensure safety of staff and students at risk of COVID-19. Workplace-based learning will be conducted within the specific rules applicable to the relevant industry. There is guidance for people at higher risk of COVID-19. It includes advice under the different Alert Levels, who is at higher risk, and how they can protect themselves. Information for at-risk people At Alert Level 2, people who are probable or confirmed cases of COVID-19, or who are a close contact of a case, will have to self-isolate for 14 days, or until cleared by a doctor. People arriving from overseas will continue to be placed in managed-isolation for 14 days, or quarantine if they are showing symptoms. Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 should get tested — contact your doctor or Healthline. New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is still at Alert Level 3. You must continue to comply with all Alert Level 3 restrictions. Please stay home and save lives. What Alert Level 3 means for you --- Section Separator --- We’ve united against Covid-19 and by continuing to work together we can earn the opportunity to move to Alert Level 2. When we move to Alert Level 2 we can leave our bubbles and reconnect with friends and family. We’ll move to Alert Level 2 when we’re confident there is no community transmission and that the disease is contained. When we do, we’ll have measures in place to track and stop any new transmission and stamp out any outbreaks. Cabinet is reviewing whether we are ready to move to Alert Level 2 on Monday 11 May. Until then, we remain at Alert Level 3. --- Section Separator --- You will have more freedom of movement at Alert Level 2, but it’s up to each one of us to keep the rest of New Zealand safe. These are the most important things that you can do: COVID-19 is still out there. Play it safe. Keep your distance from other people in public. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have symptoms of cold or flu call your doctor or Healthline and get tested. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, regularly disinfect surfaces. If you have been told to self-isolate you must do so immediately. Keep a track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. --- Section Separator --- Life at Alert Level 2 means we can resume many of our everyday activities — but we have to do so safely. All businesses can open if they can do it safely. This will help to get people back to work. We can go in-store at local businesses. Tertiary education facilities, schools and early learning centres will be open. We can travel between regions. We can safely connect and socialise with close friends and family. We can visit local restaurants, cafes and bars. We can return to our regular recreation activities. We can celebrate life’s important moments with our loved ones such as weddings, funerals, birthdays and anniversaries. Small religious gatherings and ceremonies can be held with public health measures in place. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2 is not life as normal, some restrictions and other measures remain in place to reduce the risk of transmission. We need to maintain physical distancing. We will keep tight controls in place at our borders. Our wide-scale testing will continue. We will find and self-isolate anyone who is unwell and their close contacts. There will be measures in place to allow some safe travel and socialising. Only small, controlled gatherings will be permitted. Early childhood centres, schools and tertiary organisations will see most people returning — with controls in place. Physical distancing, hygiene standards and contact registers will make businesses safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home to do more things, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Follow these physical distancing rules: Keep your distance in public from people you do not know (ideally 2 metres). 1 metre physical distancing in most other environments, unless there are mitigating measures. Examples of environments where you should maintain 1 metre distancing include cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and retail stores. Take extra care if you interact with people you don’t know as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. These situations include playgrounds, parks, shopping malls or walking along the street. There will be a few instances at Alert Level 2 where it won’t be practical to maintain physical distancing, so there will be other measures to manage public health risks. Examples include hairdressing, physiotherapists, home help, and public transport. --- Section Separator --- You can attend gatherings of no more than 100 people, like weddings, funerals, family events, concerts, religious services and public meetings, provided public health measures (see conditions below) can be maintained. You can have friends and family over to your home, but play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands, and keep the numbers low so you can practice safe distancing. All gatherings outside of the home (indoors and outdoors) can have no more than 100 attendees, excluding staff like waiters. Indoor gatherings should be seated if possible, and should be approximately two hours long. Food and drink consumption is fine at gatherings, so you can have food at wedding receptions or after a funeral or tangihanga. It should be prepared carefully and served individually, for example, not from a buffet. Additional conditions on gatherings: Physical distancing and infection prevention and control requirements must be met. All gatherings should record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be conducted if necessary. Hospitality guidelines regarding alcohol consumption need to be strictly adhered to. You can’t participate in any gatherings or events if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation/quarantine for any reason. --- Section Separator --- Many public venues, such as museums, cinemas, food courts and markets, will be open again at Alert Level 2. However, there will be restrictions in place including the requirement to keep groups of attendees 1 metre apart. This might require limiting the number of people inside at once. Some venues may stay shut if they can’t open safely. --- Section Separator --- You can do your usual exercise, sport and recreation activities, provided you can do them safely. This includes activities that were restricted previously, including: walking, biking and hunting on public conservation land swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports hunting during duck shooting season — start date to be announced. You can play sports that involve close contact, but only if good contact registers, or contact tracing records are maintained for training and games. Make sure you know who you’re training and playing with, in case someone gets sick. No one should train or play if they have symptoms of COVID-19. For sports where it is possible to maintain physical distancing, such as tennis, you should try your best to keep 2 metres from other people. Detailed information on sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) NZ Super Rugby and ANZ Premiership Netball professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. The details for these events will be developed with Sport New Zealand and WorkSafe. Initially, they will happen without crowds but they can be broadcast. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 businesses can operate if they’re able to do so safely. At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises if they can meet public health requirements. This means businesses should: have good contact registers, or contact tracing records, in place to record everyone who you interact with on your premises maintain physical distancing of 1 metre between groups of customers. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. This means that most businesses can open their premises to the public, including: bars and cafes hardware, gardening, and clothing retailers butchers, bakeries, and fishmongers. Hospitality businesses should keep groups seated, separated, and use a single server if possible. This means each group has one server, though servers can each serve more than one table. For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have measures like: have robust contact registers, or contact tracing records, in place maintain good hygiene practices minimise contact to the extent possible. Specific guidance for key sectors is being developed by the Ministry for Business, Innovation and Employment and WorkSafe. The key public health requirements stay the same at Alert Level 2. Businesses should maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. This means businesses that don’t normally have customers on their premises could continue to have staff work from home. If workers are sick with symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell Do everything you can to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work — we all have a part to play in keeping each other safe. COVID-19 is still out there. Play it safe. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are still encouraged where possible. Talk with your workers to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone, workers, contractors and customers, with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep groups of customers 1 metre apart. Keep contact-tracing records of anyone who will have close interaction (workers, contractors or customers). Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. --- Section Separator --- You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. COVID-19 is a disease you can spread without knowing you have it. You can travel around the country if you follow good personal health measures. You will need to keep records of what travel services you use and keep track of who you have been in contact with. You should keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know. You should minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. You must not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk while travelling: Try to limit taking public transport, or use at off-peak times. Avoid sitting next to someone you don’t know, or standing. If you’re flying or taking other forms of transport that involve bookings, follow the physical distancing instructions from your transport operators. You must not travel if you are displaying symptoms of COVID-19, awaiting a test, or if you need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities will all open at Alert Level 2. On the advice of public health officials, any educational facilities connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 must close on an individual or group basis to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days. All early learning centres and schools will be physically open including years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those unable to attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning services and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing as appropriate for the context, and will work closely to ensure a safe environment where students can continue their learning.  They will need to maintain distance learning capability to help manage within these constraints, and ensure safety of staff and students at risk of COVID-19. Workplace-based learning will be conducted within the specific rules applicable to the relevant industry. --- Section Separator --- There is guidance for people at higher risk of COVID-19. It includes advice under the different Alert Levels, who is at higher risk, and how they can protect themselves. Information for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, people who are probable or confirmed cases of COVID-19, or who are a close contact of a case, will have to self-isolate for 14 days, or until cleared by a doctor. People arriving from overseas will continue to be placed in managed-isolation for 14 days, or quarantine if they are showing symptoms. Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 should get tested — contact your doctor or Healthline. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 2 State of national emergency COVID-19 compliance
Home Alert System Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. We will stay in Alert Level 3 for two weeks, before Cabinet reviews how we are tracking and makes further decisions on 11 May. At Alert Level 3 we must be vigilant. We can keep working together to unite against COVID-19 by sticking to the rules. Limiting our interactions with others is our best defence against COVID-19. Under Alert Level 3 we must continue to stay in our household bubbles whenever we are not at work, school, buying the groceries or exercising. People must stay within their household bubble but can expand this to reconnect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble if you extend it. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and well. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If a relative or loved one lives locally and is currently alone, you can extend your bubble to include them. If you are returning to work and need to make childcare or other care arrangements for those already in your bubble, a care provider can join your bubble. More information on leaving your house If you were in the wrong place when the restrictions came into place, and need to get home, you can now move throughout New Zealand to do so. There are some restrictions if you do travel. You can only move once, and in 1 direction. Travel within New Zealand Restrictions for travelling during Alert Level 3 (external link) New Zealand citizens living in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau can travel domestically within New Zealand to connect to international flights to these islands. Extending your bubble (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) A bubble is your household — the people you live with. Under Alert Level 3, you can slightly extend your bubble. For example, you can bring in a caregiver, or children who might be in shared care. Or, if you are living alone, or a couple who wants the company of another one or two people. These people do not need to live in the same household but must be local. Always keep your bubble exclusive and keep it small. If the situation in your bubble is unsafe or life-threatening you can leave your bubble immediately and seek help from a neighbour or friend. Once there you can reach out to the police, or Women’s Refuge. If you are in this situation or concerned for someone else, find out what support is available. Support available for family or sexual violence We have suggestions about how you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. Where and how you can exercise and do recreational activities Detailed information on sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) You should drive as short a distance as you can, and still do the activity. You must stay local. Your nearest recreational area could mean travelling to a neighbouring region if you live on a regional boundary, as long as this is still local and a close distance to your home. Travel to your nearest park or beach, not your favourite one. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area, for example to go for a walk or a run. You can go for a swim at the beach, a day walk, or fishing from a wharf. You can hunt on private land, but not on public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Boating, yachting and any team sports or training are not allowed. You can do recreational activities by yourself or with people from your bubble. We have guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Education information at Alert Level 3 Alert Level 3 FAQs for Schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) Most tertiary education will be through distance learning. Tertiary education facilities may open for limited activities involving small groups of up to 10 people where the members of the group stay the same and maintain physical distancing. Examples of these limited activities include campus research that can’t be done off campus, lab work, and practical hands on learning such as trades courses. Courses where close contact is unavoidable will remain online only. Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Yes, it is safe for your child to go to school. The restrictions on the numbers of children are necessary due to the need for physical distancing, transport constraints, and limited resources. The limits also help reduce the risk. Alert Level 3 FAQs for Schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) There is guidance for businesses and employees under Alert Level 3. Find more information about: Businesses and services Employees If you run a takeaway business, you can reopen it if you have pre-ordered contactless pick up or can provide home delivery. A real estate agent can open, but people should work from home if they can. The agent can enter people’s homes, but not have customers in the office. You cannot run an open home. Construction businesses can start work again but strict hygiene measures must be put in place — and office staff who can work from home should do so. This is about managing the risk of transmission. Retail shops can be difficult to control in terms of physical distancing and keeping surfaces clean. Exceptions have been made for businesses like supermarkets, but right now the risk of transmission is too high to allow this more widely. Measures like drive-through or home delivery better manage this risk, but unfortunately, not everyone will be able to do this. Right now, the risk of transmission from people providing services that require close personal contact, for example, hairdressers, manicurists, beauticians, domestic cleaners, personal trainers, gymnasiums, is too great. These businesses can resume under Alert Level 2, with appropriate health measures in place. Employment New Zealand has advice, including on health and safety, financial support and speaking up. Employment New Zealand advice on COVID-19 and the workplace (external link) The primary aim of travel restrictions is to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand by reducing contact between people, including by stopping or restricting some types of travel. This is the best way to fight COVID-19 and ultimately save lives in New Zealand. Travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Find more information about: public, private and active transport taxi and ride-sharing services travel within New Zealand leaving your house Detailed information about travel and transport (external link) Other travel should not be undertaken. The risk of transmitting the disease is too high. This is not a time to take a holiday, travel between regions to celebrate birthdays or travel from one side of a city to the other to go to a supermarket when there is a suitable one in your local area. If you need to go to work or school, you can make your usual commute, even if you cross a regional boundary to do so. You cannot travel to another region for recreation or work unless you are an essential worker travelling for work. You should not take a flight to another region unless you are an essential worker, travelling to do essential work. Where can I travel? (external link) Public transport will have fewer people on board to maintain distancing, and buses and trains will be regularly disinfected. You should thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water immediately after taking public transport. Don’t travel inter-regionally, unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Keep as local as you can, while doing your usual commute to work and school. This is only if you are not working from home or doing distance learning. You should avoid public transport if you are sick. Call your GP or Healthline to get advice. The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Gatherings and events create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. The only permitted gatherings of up to 10 people are for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. Find more information on: gatherings and events community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies gatherings for religious communities funerals and tangihanga If you hold a wedding ceremony: the 10-person limit means there can only be the couple, the celebrant, a couple of witnesses and family those who do attend must keep themselves and others safe keep a list of those who attend, stay at least 2 meters apart and wash hands regularly. Most people will still need to attend through video conferencing. Gatherings (external link) To maintain momentum in eliminating COVID-19 gatherings must be small. Keeping the limit low means the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. These places are not considered gatherings because they have appropriate public health measure in place. There is guidance for people at higher risk of COVID-19. It includes advice under the different Alert Levels, who is at higher risk, and how they can protect themselves. Information for at-risk people Guidance for those at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] We should work together to stay safe and well at every Alert Level. Kindness to others is a powerful way to look after each other. How to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19 New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. We will stay in Alert Level 3 for two weeks, before Cabinet reviews how we are tracking and makes further decisions on 11 May. At Alert Level 3 we must be vigilant. We can keep working together to unite against COVID-19 by sticking to the rules. --- Section Separator --- Limiting our interactions with others is our best defence against COVID-19. Under Alert Level 3 we must continue to stay in our household bubbles whenever we are not at work, school, buying the groceries or exercising. People must stay within their household bubble but can expand this to reconnect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble if you extend it. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and well. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If a relative or loved one lives locally and is currently alone, you can extend your bubble to include them. If you are returning to work and need to make childcare or other care arrangements for those already in your bubble, a care provider can join your bubble. More information on leaving your house If you were in the wrong place when the restrictions came into place, and need to get home, you can now move throughout New Zealand to do so. There are some restrictions if you do travel. You can only move once, and in 1 direction. Travel within New Zealand Restrictions for travelling during Alert Level 3 (external link) New Zealand citizens living in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau can travel domestically within New Zealand to connect to international flights to these islands. Extending your bubble (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) A bubble is your household — the people you live with. Under Alert Level 3, you can slightly extend your bubble. For example, you can bring in a caregiver, or children who might be in shared care. Or, if you are living alone, or a couple who wants the company of another one or two people. These people do not need to live in the same household but must be local. Always keep your bubble exclusive and keep it small. If the situation in your bubble is unsafe or life-threatening you can leave your bubble immediately and seek help from a neighbour or friend. Once there you can reach out to the police, or Women’s Refuge. If you are in this situation or concerned for someone else, find out what support is available. Support available for family or sexual violence --- Section Separator --- We have suggestions about how you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. Where and how you can exercise and do recreational activities Detailed information on sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) You should drive as short a distance as you can, and still do the activity. You must stay local. Your nearest recreational area could mean travelling to a neighbouring region if you live on a regional boundary, as long as this is still local and a close distance to your home. Travel to your nearest park or beach, not your favourite one. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area, for example to go for a walk or a run. You can go for a swim at the beach, a day walk, or fishing from a wharf. You can hunt on private land, but not on public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Boating, yachting and any team sports or training are not allowed. You can do recreational activities by yourself or with people from your bubble. --- Section Separator --- We have guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Education information at Alert Level 3 Alert Level 3 FAQs for Schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) Most tertiary education will be through distance learning. Tertiary education facilities may open for limited activities involving small groups of up to 10 people where the members of the group stay the same and maintain physical distancing. Examples of these limited activities include campus research that can’t be done off campus, lab work, and practical hands on learning such as trades courses. Courses where close contact is unavoidable will remain online only. Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Yes, it is safe for your child to go to school. The restrictions on the numbers of children are necessary due to the need for physical distancing, transport constraints, and limited resources. The limits also help reduce the risk. Alert Level 3 FAQs for Schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is guidance for businesses and employees under Alert Level 3. Find more information about: Businesses and services Employees If you run a takeaway business, you can reopen it if you have pre-ordered contactless pick up or can provide home delivery. A real estate agent can open, but people should work from home if they can. The agent can enter people’s homes, but not have customers in the office. You cannot run an open home. Construction businesses can start work again but strict hygiene measures must be put in place — and office staff who can work from home should do so. This is about managing the risk of transmission. Retail shops can be difficult to control in terms of physical distancing and keeping surfaces clean. Exceptions have been made for businesses like supermarkets, but right now the risk of transmission is too high to allow this more widely. Measures like drive-through or home delivery better manage this risk, but unfortunately, not everyone will be able to do this. Right now, the risk of transmission from people providing services that require close personal contact, for example, hairdressers, manicurists, beauticians, domestic cleaners, personal trainers, gymnasiums, is too great. These businesses can resume under Alert Level 2, with appropriate health measures in place. Employment New Zealand has advice, including on health and safety, financial support and speaking up. Employment New Zealand advice on COVID-19 and the workplace (external link) --- Section Separator --- The primary aim of travel restrictions is to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand by reducing contact between people, including by stopping or restricting some types of travel. This is the best way to fight COVID-19 and ultimately save lives in New Zealand. Travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Find more information about: public, private and active transport taxi and ride-sharing services travel within New Zealand leaving your house Detailed information about travel and transport (external link) Other travel should not be undertaken. The risk of transmitting the disease is too high. This is not a time to take a holiday, travel between regions to celebrate birthdays or travel from one side of a city to the other to go to a supermarket when there is a suitable one in your local area. If you need to go to work or school, you can make your usual commute, even if you cross a regional boundary to do so. You cannot travel to another region for recreation or work unless you are an essential worker travelling for work. You should not take a flight to another region unless you are an essential worker, travelling to do essential work. Where can I travel? (external link) Public transport will have fewer people on board to maintain distancing, and buses and trains will be regularly disinfected. You should thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water immediately after taking public transport. Don’t travel inter-regionally, unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Keep as local as you can, while doing your usual commute to work and school. This is only if you are not working from home or doing distance learning. You should avoid public transport if you are sick. Call your GP or Healthline to get advice. The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and events create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. The only permitted gatherings of up to 10 people are for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. Find more information on: gatherings and events community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies gatherings for religious communities funerals and tangihanga If you hold a wedding ceremony: the 10-person limit means there can only be the couple, the celebrant, a couple of witnesses and family those who do attend must keep themselves and others safe keep a list of those who attend, stay at least 2 meters apart and wash hands regularly. Most people will still need to attend through video conferencing. Gatherings (external link) To maintain momentum in eliminating COVID-19 gatherings must be small. Keeping the limit low means the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. These places are not considered gatherings because they have appropriate public health measure in place. --- Section Separator --- There is guidance for people at higher risk of COVID-19. It includes advice under the different Alert Levels, who is at higher risk, and how they can protect themselves. Information for at-risk people Guidance for those at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] --- Section Separator --- We should work together to stay safe and well at every Alert Level. Kindness to others is a powerful way to look after each other. How to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 2 State of national emergency COVID-19 compliance
Home Alert System Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. Information on what Alert Level 3 means for you We need your support to protect New Zealand and eradicate COVID-19. Enforcement measures may be used to ensure everyone acts together, now. Everyone must now stay home, except those providing essential services. Only make physical contact with those who you live with. Don’t worry, during this time, you will be able to access all the essentials you need, including medicine, food and other home supplies. Advice for staying at home and things to do to make it easier Guidance on Alert Level 4 rules from Ministry of Health and New Zealand Police (external link) Supermarkets, dairies, pharmacies and food banks will remain open. When shopping, as much as possible send in only 1 family member at a time. Practise 2 metre physical distancing and hygiene rules while shopping. Dairies and food banks will operate a strict “one-in, one-out” policy. They won’t be allowed to sell or provide food prepared on the premises. Primary industries, including food and beverage production and processing, will still operate. Freight and courier drivers will continue to transport and deliver food. Grocery food deliveries — such as My Food Bag and Hello Fresh — will continue, as long as the food is not pre-cooked. Takeaway services will be closed. Liquor stores will close, unless within a Licensing Trust Area and will operate with a strict “one-in, one-out” policy. Wine and beer will continue to be sold at supermarkets. Guidance on how to shop safely Information about accessing food banks Any place where the public congregates must close their face-to-face function. This includes: bars restaurants cafes gyms cinemas pools museums libraries playgrounds Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthdays, funerals, tangihanga, and weddings. Workplaces where people are undertaking essential businesses are not included. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. Self-service laundries can stay open, as long as 2 metre physical distancing is enforced. Service stations will remain open and will be supplied. Public transport, regional air travel and ferries are mostly restricted to those involved in essential services and freight. Some public transport will be available for essential trips, such as to the supermarket or doctor, but options will be limited. Building and construction workers will carry on in cases where they’re needed to maintain human health or safety. You can go for a walk, run or bike ride. Exercise is good for people’s mental health. If you do, it must be solitary, or with those you live with. Keep a 2 metre distance. Don't do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. If you are unwell, do NOT go outside. Guidance for leaving your house Advice for exercising safely, including types of exercise you should stick to and where you can exercise Staying at home is meant to reduce the transmission of the virus. For this to work, you are asked to only have physical contact with the people you live with. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your self-isolating group, or bubble. This can include at most 2 households, and they must be in the same town/city. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. If you want to talk to a neighbour, do it over the fence. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents so as long as they live in the same town/city. Feel free to drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries a the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. Only businesses that are essential may remain open during the Alert Level 4 period. If a business isn’t sure if it provides services or products which qualify as essential, it should close. If you are a business or worker in a non-essential business, you may still work — as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. Find out more about essential businesses The Government is acting to support all people in New Zealand through these changes. This includes: a wage subsidy scheme leave and self-isolation support business cash flow and tax measures. Your usual financial support, such as benefits, will continue. COVID-19 support, including how to apply, on the Work and Income website (external link) More information about the types of financial support available Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Alert Level 4. However, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Only people from the same self-isolation household group as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support, you can call or text 1737 . It's free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Find out more about funerals and tangihanga All schools and early childhood education centres are closed. Schools will be providing information directly to all parents about what this means for them. The school term break was brought forward to start on Monday 30 March. Schools are establishing ways to teach online and remotely. Where possible, essential workers with children aged 0 to 14 need to make their own arrangements for childcare. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements are in place to allow essential workers to access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Information about schools and early childhood, and information for parents and caregivers about arranging childcare Health and medical facilities are essential services and will remain open while we are at Alert Level 4. You can still get medical help if you need it. This includes healthcare services, such as Healthline, GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. However, if you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you MUST phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. If a face-to-face meeting is required, your doctor or other medical professional will organise this with you. Please only call Healthline if you or someone you know feels unwell or you need medical advice, rather than general questions about COVID-19. It's important Healthline is able to answer calls from those who need medical advice. The more people who call asking for general information, the fewer people who need medical advice can get through. If you cannot get through and are severely unwell, for example having trouble breathing, contact emergency services by calling 111 . Further advice on how to access healthcare At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only travel for essential reasons, such as to get food or medicine, or to go to work if you’re an essential worker. If you’re unwell or at high risk, you should avoid leaving your home at all. Advice if you’re unwell Advice for at-risk and vulnerable people You can use public transport, taxis and ride-sharing services for transport for essential reasons. Information about public transport Advice about using taxi and ride-sharing services You can use a private vehicle for essential reasons. You should only travel in your vehicle with people from your household. Advice for using private vehicles You can use active transport like walking and biking, if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household. How to exercise safely Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket, contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you can't get a ticket, please contact your country's embassy. Information about travel restrictions and visa extensions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Information about international travel, including latest border restrictions and advice about travelling overseas Guidance for recent arrivals in New Zealand While in Alert Level 4, air travel will be used only to transport people undertaking essential services and to transport freight. Information about domestic travel exemption for foreign nationals connecting to international flights At-risk or vulnerable people in particular should stay at home, and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying medical conditions include a compromised immune system, liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, pregnant people or those on immunosuppressant medications. You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. More information for vulnerable and at-risk groups Download a poster asking people not to enter your building Find out more about COVID-19 If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 4, you should do what you would normally do. If you feel an earthquake: drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember long or strong: get gone. If you are advised to evacuate by authorities because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice. Emergency evacuation orders will override the COVID-19 Alert Level 4 requirement to stay at home. If you have to evacuate and leave your house, take your grab bag with you and try to avoid contact with people who aren’t in your bubble. Stay 2 metres away from others. If life or property is threatened always dial 111 for Police, Fire or Ambulance. How to get ready for an emergency (external link) Download an audio version of the information on this page [MP3, 6.5 MB] Easy read description about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 4.9 MB] Easy read description about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 14 MB] Simplified easy read information about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 1.8 MB] Simplified easy read information about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 8.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. Information on what Alert Level 3 means for you --- Section Separator --- We need your support to protect New Zealand and eradicate COVID-19. Enforcement measures may be used to ensure everyone acts together, now. Everyone must now stay home, except those providing essential services. Only make physical contact with those who you live with. Don’t worry, during this time, you will be able to access all the essentials you need, including medicine, food and other home supplies. Advice for staying at home and things to do to make it easier Guidance on Alert Level 4 rules from Ministry of Health and New Zealand Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets, dairies, pharmacies and food banks will remain open. When shopping, as much as possible send in only 1 family member at a time. Practise 2 metre physical distancing and hygiene rules while shopping. Dairies and food banks will operate a strict “one-in, one-out” policy. They won’t be allowed to sell or provide food prepared on the premises. Primary industries, including food and beverage production and processing, will still operate. Freight and courier drivers will continue to transport and deliver food. Grocery food deliveries — such as My Food Bag and Hello Fresh — will continue, as long as the food is not pre-cooked. Takeaway services will be closed. Liquor stores will close, unless within a Licensing Trust Area and will operate with a strict “one-in, one-out” policy. Wine and beer will continue to be sold at supermarkets. Guidance on how to shop safely Information about accessing food banks --- Section Separator --- Any place where the public congregates must close their face-to-face function. This includes: bars restaurants cafes gyms cinemas pools museums libraries playgrounds Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthdays, funerals, tangihanga, and weddings. Workplaces where people are undertaking essential businesses are not included. --- Section Separator --- Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. Self-service laundries can stay open, as long as 2 metre physical distancing is enforced. Service stations will remain open and will be supplied. Public transport, regional air travel and ferries are mostly restricted to those involved in essential services and freight. Some public transport will be available for essential trips, such as to the supermarket or doctor, but options will be limited. Building and construction workers will carry on in cases where they’re needed to maintain human health or safety. --- Section Separator --- You can go for a walk, run or bike ride. Exercise is good for people’s mental health. If you do, it must be solitary, or with those you live with. Keep a 2 metre distance. Don't do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. If you are unwell, do NOT go outside. Guidance for leaving your house Advice for exercising safely, including types of exercise you should stick to and where you can exercise --- Section Separator --- Staying at home is meant to reduce the transmission of the virus. For this to work, you are asked to only have physical contact with the people you live with. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your self-isolating group, or bubble. This can include at most 2 households, and they must be in the same town/city. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. If you want to talk to a neighbour, do it over the fence. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents so as long as they live in the same town/city. Feel free to drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries a the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Only businesses that are essential may remain open during the Alert Level 4 period. If a business isn’t sure if it provides services or products which qualify as essential, it should close. If you are a business or worker in a non-essential business, you may still work — as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. Find out more about essential businesses --- Section Separator --- The Government is acting to support all people in New Zealand through these changes. This includes: a wage subsidy scheme leave and self-isolation support business cash flow and tax measures. Your usual financial support, such as benefits, will continue. COVID-19 support, including how to apply, on the Work and Income website (external link) More information about the types of financial support available --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Alert Level 4. However, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Only people from the same self-isolation household group as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support, you can call or text 1737 . It's free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Find out more about funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- All schools and early childhood education centres are closed. Schools will be providing information directly to all parents about what this means for them. The school term break was brought forward to start on Monday 30 March. Schools are establishing ways to teach online and remotely. Where possible, essential workers with children aged 0 to 14 need to make their own arrangements for childcare. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements are in place to allow essential workers to access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Information about schools and early childhood, and information for parents and caregivers about arranging childcare --- Section Separator --- Health and medical facilities are essential services and will remain open while we are at Alert Level 4. You can still get medical help if you need it. This includes healthcare services, such as Healthline, GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. However, if you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you MUST phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. If a face-to-face meeting is required, your doctor or other medical professional will organise this with you. Please only call Healthline if you or someone you know feels unwell or you need medical advice, rather than general questions about COVID-19. It's important Healthline is able to answer calls from those who need medical advice. The more people who call asking for general information, the fewer people who need medical advice can get through. If you cannot get through and are severely unwell, for example having trouble breathing, contact emergency services by calling 111 . Further advice on how to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only travel for essential reasons, such as to get food or medicine, or to go to work if you’re an essential worker. If you’re unwell or at high risk, you should avoid leaving your home at all. Advice if you’re unwell Advice for at-risk and vulnerable people You can use public transport, taxis and ride-sharing services for transport for essential reasons. Information about public transport Advice about using taxi and ride-sharing services You can use a private vehicle for essential reasons. You should only travel in your vehicle with people from your household. Advice for using private vehicles You can use active transport like walking and biking, if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household. How to exercise safely Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket, contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you can't get a ticket, please contact your country's embassy. Information about travel restrictions and visa extensions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Information about international travel, including latest border restrictions and advice about travelling overseas Guidance for recent arrivals in New Zealand While in Alert Level 4, air travel will be used only to transport people undertaking essential services and to transport freight. Information about domestic travel exemption for foreign nationals connecting to international flights --- Section Separator --- At-risk or vulnerable people in particular should stay at home, and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying medical conditions include a compromised immune system, liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, pregnant people or those on immunosuppressant medications. You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. More information for vulnerable and at-risk groups Download a poster asking people not to enter your building Find out more about COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 4, you should do what you would normally do. If you feel an earthquake: drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember long or strong: get gone. If you are advised to evacuate by authorities because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice. Emergency evacuation orders will override the COVID-19 Alert Level 4 requirement to stay at home. If you have to evacuate and leave your house, take your grab bag with you and try to avoid contact with people who aren’t in your bubble. Stay 2 metres away from others. If life or property is threatened always dial 111 for Police, Fire or Ambulance. How to get ready for an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- Download an audio version of the information on this page [MP3, 6.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy read description about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 4.9 MB] Easy read description about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 14 MB] --- Section Separator --- Simplified easy read information about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 1.8 MB] Simplified easy read information about COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 8.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 2 State of national emergency COVID-19 compliance
Home Alert System COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. Information on what Alert Level 3 will mean for you The Alert System means people can see and plan for the kinds of restrictions we may be required to put in place. This includes increasing or decreasing limits on human contact, travel and business operations. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] The Alert Levels tell us all what public health and social measures need to be taken. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19, and information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can also move up and down Alert Levels. In general, the Alert Levels are cumulative, for example Alert Level 1 is a base-level response. Always prepare for the next level. At all levels, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport, and other essential services, operations and staff, are expected to remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. The public will notice an increased police presence with a focus on prevention, through education and encouragement. Alert Level 4 restrictions will only be enforced if required. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. Likely that disease is not contained. Community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks and new clusters. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in the local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations, and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Community transmission might be happening. New clusters may emerge but can be controlled through testing and contact tracing. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to or for local recreation. Physical distancing of two metres outside home including on public transport, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. Bubbles must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to reconnect with close family/ whānau , or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools between years 1 to 10 and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low-risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited to, for example, essential workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness such as older people and those with existing medical conditions are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. More information for people at risk The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Household transmission could be occurring. Single or isolated cluster outbreaks. People can reconnect with friends and family, go shopping, or travel domestically, but should follow public health guidance. Physical distancing of two metres from people you don’t know when out in public is recommended, with one metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces unless other measures are in place. No more than 100 people at indoor or outdoor gatherings. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, contact tracing, and – where practical – physical distancing. Public venues can open but must comply with public health measures. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. Businesses can open to the public, but must follow public health guidance including in relation to physical distancing and contact tracing. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible (e.g. remote working, shiftbased working, physical distancing, staggering meal breaks, flexible leave). It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (e.g. those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. More information for people at risk The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Isolated household transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and must operate safely. Physical distancing encouraged. No restrictions on gatherings. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry your hands, cough into your elbow, don’t touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if you're sick. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. Information on what Alert Level 3 will mean for you --- Section Separator --- The Alert System means people can see and plan for the kinds of restrictions we may be required to put in place. This includes increasing or decreasing limits on human contact, travel and business operations. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] The Alert Levels tell us all what public health and social measures need to be taken. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19, and information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can also move up and down Alert Levels. In general, the Alert Levels are cumulative, for example Alert Level 1 is a base-level response. Always prepare for the next level. At all levels, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport, and other essential services, operations and staff, are expected to remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. The public will notice an increased police presence with a focus on prevention, through education and encouragement. Alert Level 4 restrictions will only be enforced if required. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. --- Section Separator --- Likely that disease is not contained. Community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks and new clusters. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in the local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations, and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Community transmission might be happening. New clusters may emerge but can be controlled through testing and contact tracing. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to or for local recreation. Physical distancing of two metres outside home including on public transport, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. Bubbles must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to reconnect with close family/ whānau , or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools between years 1 to 10 and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low-risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited to, for example, essential workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness such as older people and those with existing medical conditions are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. More information for people at risk --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Household transmission could be occurring. Single or isolated cluster outbreaks. People can reconnect with friends and family, go shopping, or travel domestically, but should follow public health guidance. Physical distancing of two metres from people you don’t know when out in public is recommended, with one metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces unless other measures are in place. No more than 100 people at indoor or outdoor gatherings. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, contact tracing, and – where practical – physical distancing. Public venues can open but must comply with public health measures. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. Businesses can open to the public, but must follow public health guidance including in relation to physical distancing and contact tracing. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible (e.g. remote working, shiftbased working, physical distancing, staggering meal breaks, flexible leave). It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (e.g. those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. More information for people at risk --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Isolated household transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and must operate safely. Physical distancing encouraged. No restrictions on gatherings. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry your hands, cough into your elbow, don’t touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if you're sick. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 2 State of national emergency COVID-19 compliance
Home Alert System COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 means that many businesses can get going again, and many people can go back to work. Schools can also open for children who need to attend. Under Alert Level 3, we need to be more vigilant than ever. All of us must unite against COVID-19. Remember, the Golden Rules for Alert Level 3 are: Stay home. Work and learn from home if you can. Make your business COVID-19 safe. Stay regional. Keep your bubble as small as possible. Wash your hands often with soap. Then dry them. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. If you are sick, stay at home and quickly seek advice from your GP or Healthline about getting a test. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach online (external link) If it is an emergency, you should call 111 . --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 means that many businesses can get going again, and many people can go back to work. Schools can also open for children who need to attend. Under Alert Level 3, we need to be more vigilant than ever. All of us must unite against COVID-19. Remember, the Golden Rules for Alert Level 3 are: Stay home. Work and learn from home if you can. Make your business COVID-19 safe. Stay regional. Keep your bubble as small as possible. Wash your hands often with soap. Then dry them. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. If you are sick, stay at home and quickly seek advice from your GP or Healthline about getting a test. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach online (external link) If it is an emergency, you should call 111 . --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 2 State of national emergency COVID-19 compliance
Home Alert System State of national emergency --- Section Separator --- A state of national emergency was declared at 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 at due to COVID-19. The state has been extended on the following dates: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020 — extended to 12:21pm on Wednesday, 13 May 2020 unless further extended or terminated earlier. The state of national emergency must be renewed every 7 days. It covers all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. This declaration has been made because of the unprecedented nature of this global pandemic, and to ensure the Government has all the powers it needs to slow the spread of COVID-19 and reduce its impact. The state of national emergency declaration allows the Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) to direct and coordinate personnel, material and other resources and provides access to powers that would not normally be available, but will be needed to manage the ongoing response. Notices on the state of national emergency The state of national emergency has no impact on the COVID-19 Alert Level. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 came into force at 11:59pm Wednesday 25 March, and New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. Emergency powers under the CDEM Act 2002 enable the Director of Civil Defence Emergency and CDEM Group Controllers to, among other things: close or restrict access to roads or public places remove or secure dangerous structures and materials provide rescue, first aid, food, shelter etc. conserve essential supplies and regulate traffic dispose of dead persons and animals enter onto premises, for example, to rescue people or save lives evacuate premises/places remove vehicles, vessels etc. requisition equipment, materials and assistance. CDEM Act powers can be used where necessary to slow the spread of COVID-19, reduce its impact and manage the consequences, for example: powers of requisition to manage wider consequences, such as providing for the conservation and supply of fuel and other essential supplies closing roads stopping people doing activities that may contribute to the emergency excluding people from places prohibiting or regulating traffic. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. It is almost certain that we will need to extend the declaration beyond 7 days. At this stage, it is too early to say when the state of national emergency will end. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. As part of the response to COVID-19, CDEM Director Sarah Stuart-Black will also hold the powers of National Controller. The Director of CDEM is part of the all-of-government response leadership team. This declaration of a state of national emergency simply ensures that we have all of the legislative means possible, all the enforcement powers, all the tools we need, at our disposal to combat the spread of COVID-19. The declaration of a state of national emergency is one part of our response to COVID-19. It sits alongside the use of powers under the Health Act, the Immigration Act, the Public Finance Act and others, all of which are designed to ensure our health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport, and other essential services, operations and staff, can remain up and running. COVID-19 meets the definition of emergency because: COVID-19 has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation it poses a significant risk to the health and safety of members of the public a significant and co-ordinated response is required under the CDEM Act, for example, co-ordination of welfare agencies, border agencies, emergency services and lifeline utilities at the national and regional level. Under the CDEM Act, this declaration means the Director of CDEM may control the exercise and performance of functions, duties, and powers of CDEM Groups and Group controllers. There are no other differences between the powers under a state of local emergency and a state of national emergency. This is the second time in New Zealand history that a state of national emergency has been declared. A state of national emergency for Christchurch City was declared on 23 February 2011 in response to the February 22 Christchurch earthquake. The state of national emergency was declared for Christchurch City as resources from across the country were required in order to assist response and early recovery efforts and lasted from 23 February 2011 until 30 April 2011 for a day count of 66 days. The state of national emergency for COVID-19 is the first time such a declaration has been made for the whole of New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- A state of national emergency was declared at 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 at due to COVID-19. The state has been extended on the following dates: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020 — extended to 12:21pm on Wednesday, 13 May 2020 unless further extended or terminated earlier. The state of national emergency must be renewed every 7 days. It covers all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. This declaration has been made because of the unprecedented nature of this global pandemic, and to ensure the Government has all the powers it needs to slow the spread of COVID-19 and reduce its impact. The state of national emergency declaration allows the Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) to direct and coordinate personnel, material and other resources and provides access to powers that would not normally be available, but will be needed to manage the ongoing response. Notices on the state of national emergency --- Section Separator --- The state of national emergency has no impact on the COVID-19 Alert Level. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 came into force at 11:59pm Wednesday 25 March, and New Zealand moved to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Monday 27 April. --- Section Separator --- Emergency powers under the CDEM Act 2002 enable the Director of Civil Defence Emergency and CDEM Group Controllers to, among other things: close or restrict access to roads or public places remove or secure dangerous structures and materials provide rescue, first aid, food, shelter etc. conserve essential supplies and regulate traffic dispose of dead persons and animals enter onto premises, for example, to rescue people or save lives evacuate premises/places remove vehicles, vessels etc. requisition equipment, materials and assistance. CDEM Act powers can be used where necessary to slow the spread of COVID-19, reduce its impact and manage the consequences, for example: powers of requisition to manage wider consequences, such as providing for the conservation and supply of fuel and other essential supplies closing roads stopping people doing activities that may contribute to the emergency excluding people from places prohibiting or regulating traffic. --- Section Separator --- Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. It is almost certain that we will need to extend the declaration beyond 7 days. At this stage, it is too early to say when the state of national emergency will end. --- Section Separator --- The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. --- Section Separator --- As part of the response to COVID-19, CDEM Director Sarah Stuart-Black will also hold the powers of National Controller. --- Section Separator --- The Director of CDEM is part of the all-of-government response leadership team. This declaration of a state of national emergency simply ensures that we have all of the legislative means possible, all the enforcement powers, all the tools we need, at our disposal to combat the spread of COVID-19. The declaration of a state of national emergency is one part of our response to COVID-19. It sits alongside the use of powers under the Health Act, the Immigration Act, the Public Finance Act and others, all of which are designed to ensure our health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport, and other essential services, operations and staff, can remain up and running. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 meets the definition of emergency because: COVID-19 has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation it poses a significant risk to the health and safety of members of the public a significant and co-ordinated response is required under the CDEM Act, for example, co-ordination of welfare agencies, border agencies, emergency services and lifeline utilities at the national and regional level. --- Section Separator --- Under the CDEM Act, this declaration means the Director of CDEM may control the exercise and performance of functions, duties, and powers of CDEM Groups and Group controllers. There are no other differences between the powers under a state of local emergency and a state of national emergency. --- Section Separator --- This is the second time in New Zealand history that a state of national emergency has been declared. A state of national emergency for Christchurch City was declared on 23 February 2011 in response to the February 22 Christchurch earthquake. The state of national emergency was declared for Christchurch City as resources from across the country were required in order to assist response and early recovery efforts and lasted from 23 February 2011 until 30 April 2011 for a day count of 66 days. The state of national emergency for COVID-19 is the first time such a declaration has been made for the whole of New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 2 State of national emergency COVID-19 compliance
Information for businesses and services on financial support, operating safely and working with employees. Information for employees on financial support, and working with your employer to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19. Find out what financial support you could access. Access the latest economic data from the Treasury. Resources to help your business operate safely — including poster, signs, and contact tracing templates. --- Section Separator --- Information for businesses and services on financial support, operating safely and working with employees. Information for employees on financial support, and working with your employer to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19. Find out what financial support you could access. Access the latest economic data from the Treasury. Resources to help your business operate safely — including poster, signs, and contact tracing templates.
Home Businesses and employees Business Toolkit --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You need to adjust your printer settings. Safe business declaration A4 (external link) How to wait safely poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] 2 metre distancing poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Be kind to others poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Poster asking people not to enter your building [PDF, 1.5 MB] Businesses operating at Alert Level 3 must record everyone who visits their workplace and save their contact information. Contact tracing at your workplace Contact tracing register for businesses — A4 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Contact tracing information sheet for staff — A4 [PDF, 1.5 MB] You should develop a COVID-19 plan so your business can operate safely. Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You need to adjust your printer settings. Safe business declaration A4 (external link) How to wait safely poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] 2 metre distancing poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Be kind to others poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Poster asking people not to enter your building [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Businesses operating at Alert Level 3 must record everyone who visits their workplace and save their contact information. Contact tracing at your workplace Contact tracing register for businesses — A4 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Contact tracing information sheet for staff — A4 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- You should develop a COVID-19 plan so your business can operate safely. Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Businesses and services Employees COVID-19 financial support tool Economic data Business Toolkit
Develop a COVID-19 plan so your business operates safely. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees during COVID-19. Advice for NGOs and charities, and information about how you can support your workers and your organisation. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. Decisions about essential businesses and services at COVID-19 Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Develop a COVID-19 plan so your business operates safely. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees during COVID-19. Advice for NGOs and charities, and information about how you can support your workers and your organisation. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. Decisions about essential businesses and services at COVID-19 Alert Level 4.
Home Businesses and employees Businesses and services Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers, and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Businesses must self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. You must comply with the following rules at Alert Level 3. Your business cannot operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. Your staff should work from home if they can. Customers cannot come onto your premises unless you are a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up must also be contactless. You must maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. If you allow customers to bring their own containers, make sure you follow food safety requirements to protect your employees and customers. Your workers must stay home if they are sick. For retailers, manufacturers, and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you don’t need it now. For essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders, and corrections staff, different PPE guidance applies. Ministry of Health guidance on PPE (external link) You must meet all other health and safety obligations. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations that were deemed essential under Alert Level 4 can continue to operate under Alert Level 3 as they have been. Any business providing necessities must minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but cannot be consumed by customers onsite. Retail stores and hospitality businesses such as bars and cafes may operate, but customers cannot enter the premises. Delivery, or drive-through or contactless pick up by customers is allowed. Customers can pay in cash if there is no alternative, but try to handle the cash using self-checkout kiosks or cleaning hands well after handling. Customers can’t consume food or drink on your premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, they must manage food safety risks and adhere to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. Guidance for the building and construction sector (external link) All goods can be delivered, including food. The delivery must be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, house cleaning is not allowed. If you are going into people’s homes or workplaces to do work, you can give them this information sheet: Staying safe and well when having work done at home or work [PDF, 28 KB] You can use and display the Safe business declaration sheet in your workplace. Safe business declaration sheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] Government agencies will not determine if individual businesses can operate, nor will they keep a register of businesses that meet the guidelines. WorkSafe has guidance to help you determine if your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan – what you need to think about (external link) Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different alert level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 alert levels (external link) Our Business Toolkit has resources, like posters and templates, to help your business operate safely. Business Toolkit A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Alert Level 3 means for your business general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. If you are a business owner or workplace manager, you need to have a COVID-19 safety plan to manage how you and your staff are going to work safely and healthily in a COVID-19 environment. You need to work closely with staff in developing your plan and it must be shared with all staff. Templates and guidance are available on the WorkSafe website. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) If you have questions about the guidance, call your industry body, or WorkSafe. There are still restrictions on travel under Alert 3. If you need to travel for work, the Ministry of Transport has guidance covering what you need to consider when travelling. Transport and travel by alert level (external link) If you are travelling with colleagues, such as in a car together, WorkSafe has guidance on how to do this safely. Travelling in vehicles for work (external link) We need all New Zealanders to work together to make Alert Level 3 a success. As the regulator, WorkSafe will carry out spot checks to make sure businesses and workers are operating safely under the Alert Level 3 guidance. If you have concerns about a business, report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Make a report to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) To stop the spread of COVID-19, it’s important to keep track of people’s movements. Contact tracing helps us do that. With contact tracing, a business records details of all personal movement at their workplaces. This is saved in case we need to contact people who have been exposed to COVID-19. Businesses operating at Alert Level 3 must record everyone who visits their workplace and save their contact information. That means you must have a contact tracing register. All people on-site – employees and visitors – must sign your register. Make sure it is done every day, including weekends and after hours. The Ministry of Health or District Health Boards may contact a business if a person is diagnosed with COVID-19 and the business is a potential contact. They will ask for your register for the time that person visited. Contact tracing information will not be used for any other purpose. Your contact tracing register or record-keeping system must collect employees or visitors': Full name Phone number Email address Date of entering the business Time in and out Signature Make sure you meet contact tracing requirements: Create your own or download a register form: Contact tracing register [PDF, 1.6 MB] Make sure your register is hygienic. Assign an employee to complete the register for your team or visitors, so only one person is touching the pen and paper. Or sanitise the pen after every use and ask users to sanitise hands before and after writing their details. Keep your contact tracing register in a secure place for 2 months. Once all records on a page are 2 months old, they must be destroyed. Only share your register with the Ministry of Health or District Health Boards. Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: Contact tracing for COVID-19 You can use and display the Safe business declaration sheet in your workplace. Safe business declaration sheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers, and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Businesses must self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. You must comply with the following rules at Alert Level 3. Your business cannot operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. Your staff should work from home if they can. Customers cannot come onto your premises unless you are a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up must also be contactless. You must maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. If you allow customers to bring their own containers, make sure you follow food safety requirements to protect your employees and customers. Your workers must stay home if they are sick. For retailers, manufacturers, and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you don’t need it now. For essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders, and corrections staff, different PPE guidance applies. Ministry of Health guidance on PPE (external link) You must meet all other health and safety obligations. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations that were deemed essential under Alert Level 4 can continue to operate under Alert Level 3 as they have been. Any business providing necessities must minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but cannot be consumed by customers onsite. Retail stores and hospitality businesses such as bars and cafes may operate, but customers cannot enter the premises. Delivery, or drive-through or contactless pick up by customers is allowed. Customers can pay in cash if there is no alternative, but try to handle the cash using self-checkout kiosks or cleaning hands well after handling. Customers can’t consume food or drink on your premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, they must manage food safety risks and adhere to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. Guidance for the building and construction sector (external link) All goods can be delivered, including food. The delivery must be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, house cleaning is not allowed. If you are going into people’s homes or workplaces to do work, you can give them this information sheet: Staying safe and well when having work done at home or work [PDF, 28 KB] You can use and display the Safe business declaration sheet in your workplace. Safe business declaration sheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Government agencies will not determine if individual businesses can operate, nor will they keep a register of businesses that meet the guidelines. WorkSafe has guidance to help you determine if your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan – what you need to think about (external link) Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different alert level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 alert levels (external link) Our Business Toolkit has resources, like posters and templates, to help your business operate safely. Business Toolkit A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what Alert Level 3 means for your business general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or workplace manager, you need to have a COVID-19 safety plan to manage how you and your staff are going to work safely and healthily in a COVID-19 environment. You need to work closely with staff in developing your plan and it must be shared with all staff. Templates and guidance are available on the WorkSafe website. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) If you have questions about the guidance, call your industry body, or WorkSafe. --- Section Separator --- There are still restrictions on travel under Alert 3. If you need to travel for work, the Ministry of Transport has guidance covering what you need to consider when travelling. Transport and travel by alert level (external link) If you are travelling with colleagues, such as in a car together, WorkSafe has guidance on how to do this safely. Travelling in vehicles for work (external link) --- Section Separator --- We need all New Zealanders to work together to make Alert Level 3 a success. As the regulator, WorkSafe will carry out spot checks to make sure businesses and workers are operating safely under the Alert Level 3 guidance. If you have concerns about a business, report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Make a report to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, it’s important to keep track of people’s movements. Contact tracing helps us do that. With contact tracing, a business records details of all personal movement at their workplaces. This is saved in case we need to contact people who have been exposed to COVID-19. Businesses operating at Alert Level 3 must record everyone who visits their workplace and save their contact information. That means you must have a contact tracing register. All people on-site – employees and visitors – must sign your register. Make sure it is done every day, including weekends and after hours. The Ministry of Health or District Health Boards may contact a business if a person is diagnosed with COVID-19 and the business is a potential contact. They will ask for your register for the time that person visited. Contact tracing information will not be used for any other purpose. Your contact tracing register or record-keeping system must collect employees or visitors': Full name Phone number Email address Date of entering the business Time in and out Signature Make sure you meet contact tracing requirements: Create your own or download a register form: Contact tracing register [PDF, 1.6 MB] Make sure your register is hygienic. Assign an employee to complete the register for your team or visitors, so only one person is touching the pen and paper. Or sanitise the pen after every use and ask users to sanitise hands before and after writing their details. Keep your contact tracing register in a secure place for 2 months. Once all records on a page are 2 months old, they must be destroyed. Only share your register with the Ministry of Health or District Health Boards. Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: Contact tracing for COVID-19 You can use and display the Safe business declaration sheet in your workplace. Safe business declaration sheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 3 Financial support for businesses NGOs and charities Employers and employees working together Essential businesses and services at Alert Level 4
Home Businesses and employees Businesses and services Employers and employees working together --- Section Separator --- Normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships — regardless of the circumstances that we find ourselves in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. If a worker believes there are reasons why it is not safe for them to be at work, or if they have concerns that they could be putting a member of their household bubble at risk, they should let their manager know. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, addressing health and safety concerns, and modifying or terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) You should check your visa if you are working in New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident. Immigration New Zealand has relaxed the visa conditions and extended visas for many overseas employees. More information about visas for employees Information for contractors and the self-employed --- Section Separator --- Normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships — regardless of the circumstances that we find ourselves in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. If a worker believes there are reasons why it is not safe for them to be at work, or if they have concerns that they could be putting a member of their household bubble at risk, they should let their manager know. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, addressing health and safety concerns, and modifying or terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should check your visa if you are working in New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident. Immigration New Zealand has relaxed the visa conditions and extended visas for many overseas employees. More information about visas for employees --- Section Separator --- Information for contractors and the self-employed --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 3 Financial support for businesses NGOs and charities Employers and employees working together Essential businesses and services at Alert Level 4
Home Businesses and employees Businesses and services Essential businesses and services at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- The list below provides a sector-level overview of the essential businesses and services. This includes any critical suppliers in their supply chains, such as a firm repairing IT and data infrastructure for an essential service can remain in operation. This was last updated at 4pm, 8 April 2020. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Any entity that provides accommodation services for essential workers, isolation/quarantine, and emergency housing. Retirement villages. Backpackers accommodation. Lead agency: Customs New Zealand Customs New Zealand, Immigration New Zealand and the Ministry for Primary Industries. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Any entity involved in building and construction related to essential services and critical infrastructure, including those in the supply and support chain. Any entity involved in any work required to address immediate health or life safety risks, or to prevent serious environmental harm, and relevant essential supply chain elements. Any entity with statutory responsibilities or that is involved in building and resource consenting necessary for the above purposes. Lead agency: Ministry of Justice Courts of New Zealand, tribunals. Critical Crown entities, for example, the Electoral Commission. Protocols setting out the arrangements for each court, including arrangements made for remote appearances and the circumstances in which people may need to appear in person are in operation. Lead agency: Ministry of Education Any entity or individual determined by the Secretary for Education as required to provide distance or online learning, such as printers, devices, IT. Any person employed or contracted as teaching, nursery and childcare staff, including specialist education professionals and others who provide support, for example to disabled children. Any person employed by or contracted to an educational facility. Any entity supplying educational facilities or educational materials, for example printers. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Any entity involved in the supply, delivery, distribution and sale of food, beverage and other key consumer goods essential for maintaining the wellbeing of people. Lead agencies: Financial Markets Authority and Reserve Bank of New Zealand Any entity that operates consumer and business financial services, financial services infrastructure including banking services, a stock exchange, broking services, payment and settlement systems, funds management including KiwiSaver, insurance services, financial advice, and support services such as administrators, supervisors and custodians. Lead agency: Ministry of Health District Health Boards and all of their facilities, PHARMAC, New Zealand Blood Service, Health Promotion Agency, Health Quality and Safety Commission. Any person employed or contracted as a doctor, nurse, midwife, pharmacist, paramedic, medical laboratory scientists, kaiāwhina workers, social workers, aged care and community workers, and caregivers more generally. Hospitals, primary care clinics, pharmacies, medical laboratories, care facilities like rest homes. Emergency dental and optometry care services. Any entity providing ambulance services. Any entity involved with the deceased/tūpāpaku, for example, funeral homes, crematories, cemeteries. Any entity producing health sector equipment, medicines and PPE. Lead agencies: Department of Internal Affairs (local government) and State Services Commission (national government) Any entity involved in COVID-19 response, enforcement, planning or logistics or that has civil defence/emergency management functions including any entity that supplies services for these purposes. Key public services. Lead agency: Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Maintaining critical operations at foreign missions based in New Zealand. Lead agency: Ministry for Primary Industries Any entity involved in the packaging, production and processing of food and beverage products, whether for domestic consumption or export. Any entity involved in relevant support services, such as food safety and verification, inspection or associated laboratory services, food safety and biosecurity functions. Any entity providing veterinary services. Any entity whose closure would jeopardise the maintenance of animal health or welfare standards including the short-term survival of a species. Lead agency: National Emergency Management Agency The Department of Corrections, Fire and Emergency New Zealand, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, New Zealand Defence Force, New Zealand Police, New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, Government Communications Security Bureau, and Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. Courts of New Zealand. Any person employed or contracted in a public safety or national security role. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment ESR, GNS, GeoNet, NIWA, MetService. Any entity, including research organisations, involved in COVID-19 response. Any entity, including research organisations, involved in hazard monitoring and resilience. Any entity, including research organisations, involved in diagnostics for essential services like biosecurity or public health. Laboratories and Physical Containment level 3 (PC3) facilities that could provide essential services and products that could be used to respond to COVID-19. Other significant research facilities including animal facilities, clinical trials and infrastructure that requires constant attention, for example, samples, collections and storage facilities that are important to New Zealand. Lead Agency: Ministry of Social Development/Oranga Tamariki Those entities, including non-government organisations, that provide welfare and social services to meet immediate needs, in the following categories: Where the service is the only way for people to access food and other goods they need to live day-to-day. A social service that provides and supports a place for someone to live. A social service that supports disabled people to maintain critical wellbeing. Crisis support for people who are unsafe. Where the service is the only way for people to access food and other goods they need to live day-to-day. A social service that provides and supports a place for someone to live. A social service that supports disabled people to maintain critical wellbeing. Crisis support for people who are unsafe. Lead agency: Ministry of Transport Any small passenger service vehicle driver who holds the relevant licence such as ride-share or taxi drivers. Any entity providing services to keep vehicles operational for essential work purposes, such as vehicle testing, mechanics, tyre services. Ministry of Transport, New Zealand Customs, New Zealand Transport Agency, Civil Aviation Authority including Aviation Security Service, Maritime New Zealand including the Rescue Coordination Centre, Airways NZ, MetService, KiwiRail including Interislander, and any entity which is contracted by these entities. Any entity that provides, or is contracted to an entity that provides, logistics services, including New Zealand Post and courier services. Any entity providing, or that is contracted by an entity that provides, transport services to the Ministry of Health, a District Health Board, a Medical Officer of Health, or a Controller as defined in section 4 of the Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002. Any entity which provides services related to the maintenance and ongoing operation of critical infrastructure, for example, roads, rail, ports, airports. Any entity which operates or is contracted by an entity listed in Schedule 1 of the Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002, an aerodrome, a passenger and/or freight aviation service, a passenger and/or freight shipping service, a road freight service, a rail freight service, a vehicle recovery service; or a public transport service under contract with a Regional Council. The delivery of solid fuels including firewood, pellets and coal for immediate needs, such as home heating or fulfilling existing orders is an essential service. Maintenance of aircraft, as per manufacturers instructions Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment, and Ministry for Culture and Heritage for broadcasting Any entity involved in the production, supply, sale distribution or disposal of electricity, gas, water, wastewater, for example, sanitation, waste, rubbish collection and recycling, liquid and solid fuel, telecommunication services, and any entity that is contracted by these entities. The delivery of solid fuels including firewood, pellets and coal for immediate needs, such as home heating or fulfilling existing orders, is an essential service. Disposal of waste, including recycling, is an essential service.  Individual operators have responsibilities to appropriately meet the health, safety, and security requirements of their staff and customers, and should not operate if they feel they cannot do so. News including news production and broadcast media are considered essential. Daily delivery of newspapers is considered essential. Non-daily newspapers for communities that are hard to reach due to physical location and with limited access to digital connectivity, or for non-English language material audiences are considered essential. Non-broadcast news organisations are encouraged to deliver services online wherever possible. Magazines do not provide critical up-to-date news information. The physical production, delivery and retail distribution of magazines are not considered an essential service. Magazines are encouraged to deliver services online wherever possible. Security and cleaning of GLAM institutions: All galleries, libraries, archives and museums will remain closed to the public. Essential security and maintenance are permitted. Security is considered an essential service, even if security services are being provided in relation to a premise for a non-essential service. Internet service providers. Any entity that provides maintenance and repair services for utilities and communications, including supply chains. Any entity supplying services to essential workplaces that are required for the safe operation of that workplace, such as cleaning, security services. Commercial cleaners that clean common areas of apartment buildings may also continue to operate, where there is high-traffic like lifts, stairwells. For the avoidance of doubt, sectors and occupations specified in the following are also considered essential: Schedule 1 of the Civil Defence and Emergency Management CDEM Act 2002 Schedule 1 of lifeline utilities, and Employment Relations Act 2000 Schedule 1 of essential services. This was last updated at 11am, 16 April 2020. Note this reflects guidance for essential services at Alert Level 4, issued between 26 March and 27 April 2020. It does not necessarily mean these services will be operating the same way at different Alert Levels. Airbnb is considered to be an essential service but must operate under very strict protocols and management of access conditions. Backpacker accommodation providers may continue to operate under very strict protocols and management of access conditions. Campgrounds may continue to operate under very strict protocols and management of access. Some property management services may be considered essential, eg urgent maintenance to ensure the supply of essential services gas, water, power, waste. All other property management activities are considered non-essential and therefore must be conducted remotely, or deferred until end of Alert Level 4. Real estate services, such as the sale and purchase of houses, are not considered to be essential. All real estate business must be undertaken from home. At Alert Level 4, alcohol is available to be purchased in supermarkets, and Licensing Trust stores in the four areas where Licensing Trusts hold a monopoly. The four areas where Licensing Trusts have a monopoly are Invercargill, Waitakere (West Auckland), Portage (West Auckland) and Mataura (Gore). Open liquor store premises can only operate with a one-in-one-out rule. All other liquor stores must be closed to the public. The online or remote sale and contactless delivery of alcohol including spirits is permitted under certain conditions. Courier and parcel services should only be used for essential goods during Alert Level 4. During this period, our postal and courier service will be busy helping our society receive items and goods that are essential. Adding additional pressure and burden to that service may impact on society's wider ability to get through this period, and to stop the virus in its tracks. Businesses are able to sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. Registration with MBIE is required. From Tuesday, 14 April 2020 urgent maintenance of turf and care for plants in nurseries will be permitted under Alert Level 4 restrictions. Aircraft can be maintained according to manufacturers' maintenance instructions during Alert Level 4. Bunnings, Placemakers, Mitre 10 and other retailers essential to the supply chain for building and construction can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only. They will not be open to the public. Disposal of waste, including recycling, is an essential service and may continue to operate during Alert Level 4. Individual operators have responsibilities to appropriately meet the health, safety and security requirements of their staff and customers, and should not operate if they feel they cannot do so. Locksmiths can undertake essential work on emergency call-outs and essential activity to maintain the security of premises/personal properties. Pest management may be undertaken only where required for human health and safety, and it is essential during the Alert Level 4 period. However, operators must ensure people have somewhere safe to go while the process is underway, in particular where a property is being vacated. Road safety equipment for road construction should only be used only where maintenance is essential. Security is considered an essential service, even if security services are being provided in relation to a premise for a non-essential service. Tradespeople can do maintenance if it is to maintain the necessities of life or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Vehicle washing services must only be undertaken when supporting essential services to ensure they are complying with the necessary health and safety requirements. Eg washing off contaminated or biohazard materials. Veterinary and animal health/welfare services are essential services, and pet food is a fast-moving consumer good. Pet food is available at supermarkets and vets. Travel to look after animals is allowed, as long as you take the necessary health measures, and comply with any region-specific travel measures. Food delivery, other than cooked meals such as takeaways, is allowed. This includes supermarket home delivery, food parcels from charitable organisations, frozen pre-prepared meals, subscription food boxes or any other whole-food delivery service. Meals-on-Wheels may continue to deliver prepared food. Food banks are considered an essential social service. Food banks must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and cannot sell or provide cooked food. Shopfronts of butchers, bakers, and fruit and vegetable suppliers are not permitted to open during Alert Level 4. Contactless delivery of whole foods from butchers, bakers, and fruit and vegetable suppliers is permitted during the Alert Level 4 period. This includes delivery to consumers’ homes, and for the supply of supermarkets, dairies, and whole food delivery providers. Operations must follow strict COVID-19 health guidelines, orders must be taken online or via telephone, and delivery must not involve any interaction with the receiver. Whole foods includes bread, meat, fish, fruit and vegetables, and specifically excludes cooked or prepared foods such as takeaways. Frozen pre-prepared meals not chilled are allowed for contactless delivery under COVID-19 Alert Level 4. All supermarkets and dairies are considered essential services. A supermarket's primary focus is selling food products, and is a retail store operating on a self-service basis, selling groceries, fresh produce, meat, bakery and dairy products, and sometimes an assortment of non-food goods. Dairies must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and can sell food that has been prepared and pre-packaged off-site by a supplier as well as pre-packaged food that needs to be heated such as pies and sausage rolls.  They cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked onsite including coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches. Convenience stores at service stations can operate using the one-in-one-out rule. They cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked onsite including coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches. Convenience stores at service stations can sell pre-packaged food that has been prepared off-site and delivered, which can then be heated on-site if required. This includes pre-packaged pies and sausage rolls. Click and collect services can only be offered by supermarkets at Alert Level 4. No other click and collect services should be offered by any other businesses to consumers at this time. Essential surveying, that is critical to the supply chain of an essential service, may operate at Alert Level 4. Surveying should only be carried out if the service is immediately required for the continuation of essential services, or to prevent the failure of an essential service in Alert Level 4. Surveying for a non-essential service should not be carried out during Alert Level 4. If essential surveying for essential services is carried out, this should be done in a way that limits the transmission of COVID-19. With regard to aerial surveying, businesses should comply with all aviation requirements and directions from applicable authorities. Self-service laundries can stay open. While recruitment for essential services positions may be considered essential, this should be done entirely remotely, from home. Rental cars may be accessed in some circumstances. Self-storage facilities can operate only to facilitate access for essentials. New sales or expiries of units are considered non-essential. Access to existing lockers is permitted for essential items or services only, eg fridges. Critical support services to ensure businesses and workers can continue working from home are considered to be essential. This includes functions such as IT and payroll. The sale, installation and repair of connectivity devices, for example, TVs, mobile phones, smart phones, telephones, computers, modems/internet, radios is considered to be essential for the maintenance of connectivity. Installation and repair may continue where it is essential for the maintenance of connectivity, for example, to conduct essential business, receive news or contact a doctor. Sale, installation and repair may not occur where it is duplicating or upgrading items. Unions can operate, ensuring that all non-essential activity is conducted from home or remotely. Unions may only attend premises in exceptional circumstances, eg for essential health and safety or security issues. Methanex can remain in production, but at a scale consistent with the stability of gas supply. NZ Steel is to shut down in a way that allows for production to recommence easily. Pulp and paper plants are to shut down their non-essential elements in a way that allows for production to recommence easily, and while maintaining essential production. The Tiwai Point smelter is exempt from closure. --- Section Separator --- The list below provides a sector-level overview of the essential businesses and services. This includes any critical suppliers in their supply chains, such as a firm repairing IT and data infrastructure for an essential service can remain in operation. This was last updated at 4pm, 8 April 2020. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Any entity that provides accommodation services for essential workers, isolation/quarantine, and emergency housing. Retirement villages. Backpackers accommodation. Lead agency: Customs New Zealand Customs New Zealand, Immigration New Zealand and the Ministry for Primary Industries. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Any entity involved in building and construction related to essential services and critical infrastructure, including those in the supply and support chain. Any entity involved in any work required to address immediate health or life safety risks, or to prevent serious environmental harm, and relevant essential supply chain elements. Any entity with statutory responsibilities or that is involved in building and resource consenting necessary for the above purposes. Lead agency: Ministry of Justice Courts of New Zealand, tribunals. Critical Crown entities, for example, the Electoral Commission. Protocols setting out the arrangements for each court, including arrangements made for remote appearances and the circumstances in which people may need to appear in person are in operation. Lead agency: Ministry of Education Any entity or individual determined by the Secretary for Education as required to provide distance or online learning, such as printers, devices, IT. Any person employed or contracted as teaching, nursery and childcare staff, including specialist education professionals and others who provide support, for example to disabled children. Any person employed by or contracted to an educational facility. Any entity supplying educational facilities or educational materials, for example printers. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Any entity involved in the supply, delivery, distribution and sale of food, beverage and other key consumer goods essential for maintaining the wellbeing of people. Lead agencies: Financial Markets Authority and Reserve Bank of New Zealand Any entity that operates consumer and business financial services, financial services infrastructure including banking services, a stock exchange, broking services, payment and settlement systems, funds management including KiwiSaver, insurance services, financial advice, and support services such as administrators, supervisors and custodians. Lead agency: Ministry of Health District Health Boards and all of their facilities, PHARMAC, New Zealand Blood Service, Health Promotion Agency, Health Quality and Safety Commission. Any person employed or contracted as a doctor, nurse, midwife, pharmacist, paramedic, medical laboratory scientists, kaiāwhina workers, social workers, aged care and community workers, and caregivers more generally. Hospitals, primary care clinics, pharmacies, medical laboratories, care facilities like rest homes. Emergency dental and optometry care services. Any entity providing ambulance services. Any entity involved with the deceased/tūpāpaku, for example, funeral homes, crematories, cemeteries. Any entity producing health sector equipment, medicines and PPE. Lead agencies: Department of Internal Affairs (local government) and State Services Commission (national government) Any entity involved in COVID-19 response, enforcement, planning or logistics or that has civil defence/emergency management functions including any entity that supplies services for these purposes. Key public services. Lead agency: Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Maintaining critical operations at foreign missions based in New Zealand. Lead agency: Ministry for Primary Industries Any entity involved in the packaging, production and processing of food and beverage products, whether for domestic consumption or export. Any entity involved in relevant support services, such as food safety and verification, inspection or associated laboratory services, food safety and biosecurity functions. Any entity providing veterinary services. Any entity whose closure would jeopardise the maintenance of animal health or welfare standards including the short-term survival of a species. Lead agency: National Emergency Management Agency The Department of Corrections, Fire and Emergency New Zealand, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, New Zealand Defence Force, New Zealand Police, New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, Government Communications Security Bureau, and Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. Courts of New Zealand. Any person employed or contracted in a public safety or national security role. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment ESR, GNS, GeoNet, NIWA, MetService. Any entity, including research organisations, involved in COVID-19 response. Any entity, including research organisations, involved in hazard monitoring and resilience. Any entity, including research organisations, involved in diagnostics for essential services like biosecurity or public health. Laboratories and Physical Containment level 3 (PC3) facilities that could provide essential services and products that could be used to respond to COVID-19. Other significant research facilities including animal facilities, clinical trials and infrastructure that requires constant attention, for example, samples, collections and storage facilities that are important to New Zealand. Lead Agency: Ministry of Social Development/Oranga Tamariki Those entities, including non-government organisations, that provide welfare and social services to meet immediate needs, in the following categories: Where the service is the only way for people to access food and other goods they need to live day-to-day. A social service that provides and supports a place for someone to live. A social service that supports disabled people to maintain critical wellbeing. Crisis support for people who are unsafe. Where the service is the only way for people to access food and other goods they need to live day-to-day. A social service that provides and supports a place for someone to live. A social service that supports disabled people to maintain critical wellbeing. Crisis support for people who are unsafe. Lead agency: Ministry of Transport Any small passenger service vehicle driver who holds the relevant licence such as ride-share or taxi drivers. Any entity providing services to keep vehicles operational for essential work purposes, such as vehicle testing, mechanics, tyre services. Ministry of Transport, New Zealand Customs, New Zealand Transport Agency, Civil Aviation Authority including Aviation Security Service, Maritime New Zealand including the Rescue Coordination Centre, Airways NZ, MetService, KiwiRail including Interislander, and any entity which is contracted by these entities. Any entity that provides, or is contracted to an entity that provides, logistics services, including New Zealand Post and courier services. Any entity providing, or that is contracted by an entity that provides, transport services to the Ministry of Health, a District Health Board, a Medical Officer of Health, or a Controller as defined in section 4 of the Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002. Any entity which provides services related to the maintenance and ongoing operation of critical infrastructure, for example, roads, rail, ports, airports. Any entity which operates or is contracted by an entity listed in Schedule 1 of the Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002, an aerodrome, a passenger and/or freight aviation service, a passenger and/or freight shipping service, a road freight service, a rail freight service, a vehicle recovery service; or a public transport service under contract with a Regional Council. The delivery of solid fuels including firewood, pellets and coal for immediate needs, such as home heating or fulfilling existing orders is an essential service. Maintenance of aircraft, as per manufacturers instructions Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment, and Ministry for Culture and Heritage for broadcasting Any entity involved in the production, supply, sale distribution or disposal of electricity, gas, water, wastewater, for example, sanitation, waste, rubbish collection and recycling, liquid and solid fuel, telecommunication services, and any entity that is contracted by these entities. The delivery of solid fuels including firewood, pellets and coal for immediate needs, such as home heating or fulfilling existing orders, is an essential service. Disposal of waste, including recycling, is an essential service.  Individual operators have responsibilities to appropriately meet the health, safety, and security requirements of their staff and customers, and should not operate if they feel they cannot do so. News including news production and broadcast media are considered essential. Daily delivery of newspapers is considered essential. Non-daily newspapers for communities that are hard to reach due to physical location and with limited access to digital connectivity, or for non-English language material audiences are considered essential. Non-broadcast news organisations are encouraged to deliver services online wherever possible. Magazines do not provide critical up-to-date news information. The physical production, delivery and retail distribution of magazines are not considered an essential service. Magazines are encouraged to deliver services online wherever possible. Security and cleaning of GLAM institutions: All galleries, libraries, archives and museums will remain closed to the public. Essential security and maintenance are permitted. Security is considered an essential service, even if security services are being provided in relation to a premise for a non-essential service. Internet service providers. Any entity that provides maintenance and repair services for utilities and communications, including supply chains. Any entity supplying services to essential workplaces that are required for the safe operation of that workplace, such as cleaning, security services. Commercial cleaners that clean common areas of apartment buildings may also continue to operate, where there is high-traffic like lifts, stairwells. For the avoidance of doubt, sectors and occupations specified in the following are also considered essential: Schedule 1 of the Civil Defence and Emergency Management CDEM Act 2002 Schedule 1 of lifeline utilities, and Employment Relations Act 2000 Schedule 1 of essential services. --- Section Separator --- This was last updated at 11am, 16 April 2020. Note this reflects guidance for essential services at Alert Level 4, issued between 26 March and 27 April 2020. It does not necessarily mean these services will be operating the same way at different Alert Levels. Airbnb is considered to be an essential service but must operate under very strict protocols and management of access conditions. Backpacker accommodation providers may continue to operate under very strict protocols and management of access conditions. Campgrounds may continue to operate under very strict protocols and management of access. Some property management services may be considered essential, eg urgent maintenance to ensure the supply of essential services gas, water, power, waste. All other property management activities are considered non-essential and therefore must be conducted remotely, or deferred until end of Alert Level 4. Real estate services, such as the sale and purchase of houses, are not considered to be essential. All real estate business must be undertaken from home. At Alert Level 4, alcohol is available to be purchased in supermarkets, and Licensing Trust stores in the four areas where Licensing Trusts hold a monopoly. The four areas where Licensing Trusts have a monopoly are Invercargill, Waitakere (West Auckland), Portage (West Auckland) and Mataura (Gore). Open liquor store premises can only operate with a one-in-one-out rule. All other liquor stores must be closed to the public. The online or remote sale and contactless delivery of alcohol including spirits is permitted under certain conditions. Courier and parcel services should only be used for essential goods during Alert Level 4. During this period, our postal and courier service will be busy helping our society receive items and goods that are essential. Adding additional pressure and burden to that service may impact on society's wider ability to get through this period, and to stop the virus in its tracks. Businesses are able to sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. Registration with MBIE is required. From Tuesday, 14 April 2020 urgent maintenance of turf and care for plants in nurseries will be permitted under Alert Level 4 restrictions. Aircraft can be maintained according to manufacturers' maintenance instructions during Alert Level 4. Bunnings, Placemakers, Mitre 10 and other retailers essential to the supply chain for building and construction can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only. They will not be open to the public. Disposal of waste, including recycling, is an essential service and may continue to operate during Alert Level 4. Individual operators have responsibilities to appropriately meet the health, safety and security requirements of their staff and customers, and should not operate if they feel they cannot do so. Locksmiths can undertake essential work on emergency call-outs and essential activity to maintain the security of premises/personal properties. Pest management may be undertaken only where required for human health and safety, and it is essential during the Alert Level 4 period. However, operators must ensure people have somewhere safe to go while the process is underway, in particular where a property is being vacated. Road safety equipment for road construction should only be used only where maintenance is essential. Security is considered an essential service, even if security services are being provided in relation to a premise for a non-essential service. Tradespeople can do maintenance if it is to maintain the necessities of life or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Vehicle washing services must only be undertaken when supporting essential services to ensure they are complying with the necessary health and safety requirements. Eg washing off contaminated or biohazard materials. Veterinary and animal health/welfare services are essential services, and pet food is a fast-moving consumer good. Pet food is available at supermarkets and vets. Travel to look after animals is allowed, as long as you take the necessary health measures, and comply with any region-specific travel measures. Food delivery, other than cooked meals such as takeaways, is allowed. This includes supermarket home delivery, food parcels from charitable organisations, frozen pre-prepared meals, subscription food boxes or any other whole-food delivery service. Meals-on-Wheels may continue to deliver prepared food. Food banks are considered an essential social service. Food banks must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and cannot sell or provide cooked food. Shopfronts of butchers, bakers, and fruit and vegetable suppliers are not permitted to open during Alert Level 4. Contactless delivery of whole foods from butchers, bakers, and fruit and vegetable suppliers is permitted during the Alert Level 4 period. This includes delivery to consumers’ homes, and for the supply of supermarkets, dairies, and whole food delivery providers. Operations must follow strict COVID-19 health guidelines, orders must be taken online or via telephone, and delivery must not involve any interaction with the receiver. Whole foods includes bread, meat, fish, fruit and vegetables, and specifically excludes cooked or prepared foods such as takeaways. Frozen pre-prepared meals not chilled are allowed for contactless delivery under COVID-19 Alert Level 4. All supermarkets and dairies are considered essential services. A supermarket's primary focus is selling food products, and is a retail store operating on a self-service basis, selling groceries, fresh produce, meat, bakery and dairy products, and sometimes an assortment of non-food goods. Dairies must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and can sell food that has been prepared and pre-packaged off-site by a supplier as well as pre-packaged food that needs to be heated such as pies and sausage rolls.  They cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked onsite including coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches. Convenience stores at service stations can operate using the one-in-one-out rule. They cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked onsite including coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches. Convenience stores at service stations can sell pre-packaged food that has been prepared off-site and delivered, which can then be heated on-site if required. This includes pre-packaged pies and sausage rolls. Click and collect services can only be offered by supermarkets at Alert Level 4. No other click and collect services should be offered by any other businesses to consumers at this time. Essential surveying, that is critical to the supply chain of an essential service, may operate at Alert Level 4. Surveying should only be carried out if the service is immediately required for the continuation of essential services, or to prevent the failure of an essential service in Alert Level 4. Surveying for a non-essential service should not be carried out during Alert Level 4. If essential surveying for essential services is carried out, this should be done in a way that limits the transmission of COVID-19. With regard to aerial surveying, businesses should comply with all aviation requirements and directions from applicable authorities. Self-service laundries can stay open. While recruitment for essential services positions may be considered essential, this should be done entirely remotely, from home. Rental cars may be accessed in some circumstances. Self-storage facilities can operate only to facilitate access for essentials. New sales or expiries of units are considered non-essential. Access to existing lockers is permitted for essential items or services only, eg fridges. Critical support services to ensure businesses and workers can continue working from home are considered to be essential. This includes functions such as IT and payroll. The sale, installation and repair of connectivity devices, for example, TVs, mobile phones, smart phones, telephones, computers, modems/internet, radios is considered to be essential for the maintenance of connectivity. Installation and repair may continue where it is essential for the maintenance of connectivity, for example, to conduct essential business, receive news or contact a doctor. Sale, installation and repair may not occur where it is duplicating or upgrading items. Unions can operate, ensuring that all non-essential activity is conducted from home or remotely. Unions may only attend premises in exceptional circumstances, eg for essential health and safety or security issues. Methanex can remain in production, but at a scale consistent with the stability of gas supply. NZ Steel is to shut down in a way that allows for production to recommence easily. Pulp and paper plants are to shut down their non-essential elements in a way that allows for production to recommence easily, and while maintaining essential production. The Tiwai Point smelter is exempt from closure. --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 3 Financial support for businesses NGOs and charities Employers and employees working together Essential businesses and services at Alert Level 4
Home Businesses and employees Businesses and services Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19. The scheme helps employers and their staff to maintain an employment connection and ensure an income for affected employees, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. More information and how to apply (external link) Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme to protect jobs and support the economy. The Crown in partnership with participating approved banks will support targeted new loans including increases to existing limits to eligible businesses, as a response to difficulties caused by COVID-19. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) The government has implemented measures to support business cash flow and tax measures. COVID-19 tax relief measures (external link) Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses impacted by the COVID-19 economic shock. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of five years. Repayments are not required for the first two years. Applications will open on 12 May and be managed by Inland Revenue. Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the Government’s media release (external link) You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status, for example, employer. Your situation, for example, business is unable to operate. Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19. The scheme helps employers and their staff to maintain an employment connection and ensure an income for affected employees, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. More information and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme to protect jobs and support the economy. The Crown in partnership with participating approved banks will support targeted new loans including increases to existing limits to eligible businesses, as a response to difficulties caused by COVID-19. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- The government has implemented measures to support business cash flow and tax measures. COVID-19 tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses impacted by the COVID-19 economic shock. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of five years. Repayments are not required for the first two years. Applications will open on 12 May and be managed by Inland Revenue. --- Section Separator --- Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the Government’s media release (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status, for example, employer. Your situation, for example, business is unable to operate. Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 3 Financial support for businesses NGOs and charities Employers and employees working together Essential businesses and services at Alert Level 4
Home Businesses and employees Businesses and services NGOs and charities --- Section Separator --- All guidance that applies to businesses also applies to all other workplaces, including non-government organisations (NGOs) and charities. This means, for example, if your staff can work from home they should. If staff are working from your premises then there can be no face-to-face contact with customers, unless you are providing an essential service, and hygiene and safety measures need to be put in place. Guidance for businesses at the current Alert Level Make sure: surfaces that are frequently touched, such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs, are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them staff, volunteers and attendees follow the steps. surfaces that are frequently touched, such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs, are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them staff, volunteers and attendees follow the steps. Wherever possible design spaces so that physical distancing is possible, for example ensuring good audio and video is available. Develop a communication plan to contact staff, volunteers and attendees whenever you need to update them. Identify what you need to do to postpone or cancel events or programmes for groups at greater risk, such as people aged over 70 or vulnerable people. If you see or hear people or groups being picked on because of racism or discrimination, call it out. Fighting COVID-19 requires us all to unite as one. Along with businesses, NGOs and charities need to keep their employees safe while at work. This includes ensuring limited physical interactions between employees and high standards of hygiene. Guidance for how businesses can keep their workplace safe The Ministry of Social Development has provided guidance if you are a social service providing face-to-face contact in communities during COVID-19. It includes the basics of hygiene, and guidance about personal protective equipment (PPE) — who should use it, how to use it and distribution. Personal protective equipment guidance for social services (external link) NGOs and registered charities that meet the other eligibility criteria may apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. This scheme supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19 to continue to pay their employees. Find out more about the Wage Subsidy Scheme and other types of financial support available Guidance and information for charities from Charities Services (external link) Guidance and information for all social services on Ministry of Social Development (external link) Advice for community groups, clubs and societies Information about working with volunteers Advice to religious communities --- Section Separator --- All guidance that applies to businesses also applies to all other workplaces, including non-government organisations (NGOs) and charities. This means, for example, if your staff can work from home they should. If staff are working from your premises then there can be no face-to-face contact with customers, unless you are providing an essential service, and hygiene and safety measures need to be put in place. Guidance for businesses at the current Alert Level --- Section Separator --- Make sure: surfaces that are frequently touched, such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs, are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them staff, volunteers and attendees follow the steps. surfaces that are frequently touched, such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs, are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them staff, volunteers and attendees follow the steps. Wherever possible design spaces so that physical distancing is possible, for example ensuring good audio and video is available. Develop a communication plan to contact staff, volunteers and attendees whenever you need to update them. Identify what you need to do to postpone or cancel events or programmes for groups at greater risk, such as people aged over 70 or vulnerable people. If you see or hear people or groups being picked on because of racism or discrimination, call it out. Fighting COVID-19 requires us all to unite as one. --- Section Separator --- Along with businesses, NGOs and charities need to keep their employees safe while at work. This includes ensuring limited physical interactions between employees and high standards of hygiene. Guidance for how businesses can keep their workplace safe --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development has provided guidance if you are a social service providing face-to-face contact in communities during COVID-19. It includes the basics of hygiene, and guidance about personal protective equipment (PPE) — who should use it, how to use it and distribution. Personal protective equipment guidance for social services (external link) --- Section Separator --- NGOs and registered charities that meet the other eligibility criteria may apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. This scheme supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19 to continue to pay their employees. Find out more about the Wage Subsidy Scheme and other types of financial support available --- Section Separator --- Guidance and information for charities from Charities Services (external link) Guidance and information for all social services on Ministry of Social Development (external link) Advice for community groups, clubs and societies Information about working with volunteers Advice to religious communities --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 3 Financial support for businesses NGOs and charities Employers and employees working together Essential businesses and services at Alert Level 4

Home Businesses and employees Economic data --- Section Separator --- The Treasury is publishing weekly economic updates, including a dashboard report tracking the impacts of COVID-19 on the economy. The dashboard provides real-time domestic and international data. It is designed to assist independent analysis, or give businesses a sense of what is happening across different parts of the economy. Read the latest economic updates from the Treasury (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Treasury is publishing weekly economic updates, including a dashboard report tracking the impacts of COVID-19 on the economy. The dashboard provides real-time domestic and international data. It is designed to assist independent analysis, or give businesses a sense of what is happening across different parts of the economy. Read the latest economic updates from the Treasury (external link) --- Section Separator --- Businesses and services Employees COVID-19 financial support tool Economic data Business Toolkit
Information on the wage subsidy scheme and COVID-19 leave support scheme for employees. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. Information on keeping safe at work, including for physical and close contact jobs. --- Section Separator --- Information on the wage subsidy scheme and COVID-19 leave support scheme for employees. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. Information on keeping safe at work, including for physical and close contact jobs.
Home Businesses and employees Employees Employers and employees working together --- Section Separator --- Normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships — regardless of the circumstances that we find ourselves in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. If a worker believes there are reasons why it is not safe for them to be at work, or if they have concerns that they could be putting a member of their household bubble at risk, they should let their manager know. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, addressing health and safety concerns, and modifying or terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) You should check your visa if you are working in New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident. Immigration New Zealand has relaxed the visa conditions and extended visas for many overseas employees. More information about visas for employees Information for contractors and the self-employed --- Section Separator --- Normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships — regardless of the circumstances that we find ourselves in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. If a worker believes there are reasons why it is not safe for them to be at work, or if they have concerns that they could be putting a member of their household bubble at risk, they should let their manager know. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, addressing health and safety concerns, and modifying or terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should check your visa if you are working in New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident. Immigration New Zealand has relaxed the visa conditions and extended visas for many overseas employees. More information about visas for employees --- Section Separator --- Information for contractors and the self-employed --- Section Separator --- Financial support for employees Employers and employees working together Keeping safe at work
Home Businesses and employees Employees Financial support for employees --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy scheme: supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19, so that they can continue to pay their employees, and supports employees to ensure they continue to receive an income, even if they can’t work. Employees cannot apply directly for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy. However, your employer may be able to apply to help cover your wages. You can ask your employer if they have applied for you. The scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 for people working 20 hours or more per week which is considered a full-time rate $350 for people working less than 20 hours per week which is considered a part-time rate. The subsidy is paid as a lump sum and covers 12 weeks per employee. The amount paid to you may differ due to deductions (like tax) and your employment circumstances. Organisations can only apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy for employees who are legally working in New Zealand. This includes people on work visas or student visas with conditions that allow them to work. To qualify, the organisation you work for must meet the following criteria: Be registered as applicable for their organisation and operating in New Zealand. Have had at least a 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over a month, when compared with the same month last year, and that decline is related to COVID-19. Have taken active steps to lessen the impact of COVID-19. If your employer is eligible and has not applied, but has proposed to reduce your pay, they need to explain to you in good faith why they have not applied. More information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) You can see which businesses have received payments under the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme on the Work and Income website. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy employer search (external link) This information has been published to ensure payments under the Wage Subsidy Scheme are transparent and that the scheme is accountable to the public. If you believe your employer is receiving the subsidy, but not meeting the conditions they agreed to, talk to your employer first. If the issue is not resolved, you can make a complaint to Employment New Zealand. Make a complaint about your employer (external link) This scheme helps eligible businesses pay their employees who can’t come into work because public health guidelines recommend they stay at home, and they can't work from home. Your employer will make the application for support to pay you. If you are self-employed or working as a contractor, you can apply directly yourself. The scheme is paid at the same rates as the Wage Subsidy scheme. From 28 April, the COVID-19 Leave Support scheme will cover all workers outside of the state sector, in line with the move to Alert Level 3. Applications for the COVID-19 Leave Support scheme can be made from 1 May on the Work and Income website. More information on the Leave Support Scheme (external link) If you are experiencing financial distress, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Check what support you might be able to get on the online eligibility guide. More information on financial support for individuals You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status, for example, employee. Your situation, for example, reduced or zero hours. Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] Audio description about getting help with money is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy scheme: supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19, so that they can continue to pay their employees, and supports employees to ensure they continue to receive an income, even if they can’t work. Employees cannot apply directly for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy. However, your employer may be able to apply to help cover your wages. You can ask your employer if they have applied for you. The scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 for people working 20 hours or more per week which is considered a full-time rate $350 for people working less than 20 hours per week which is considered a part-time rate. The subsidy is paid as a lump sum and covers 12 weeks per employee. The amount paid to you may differ due to deductions (like tax) and your employment circumstances. Organisations can only apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy for employees who are legally working in New Zealand. This includes people on work visas or student visas with conditions that allow them to work. To qualify, the organisation you work for must meet the following criteria: Be registered as applicable for their organisation and operating in New Zealand. Have had at least a 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over a month, when compared with the same month last year, and that decline is related to COVID-19. Have taken active steps to lessen the impact of COVID-19. If your employer is eligible and has not applied, but has proposed to reduce your pay, they need to explain to you in good faith why they have not applied. More information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) You can see which businesses have received payments under the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme on the Work and Income website. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy employer search (external link) This information has been published to ensure payments under the Wage Subsidy Scheme are transparent and that the scheme is accountable to the public. If you believe your employer is receiving the subsidy, but not meeting the conditions they agreed to, talk to your employer first. If the issue is not resolved, you can make a complaint to Employment New Zealand. Make a complaint about your employer (external link) --- Section Separator --- This scheme helps eligible businesses pay their employees who can’t come into work because public health guidelines recommend they stay at home, and they can't work from home. Your employer will make the application for support to pay you. If you are self-employed or working as a contractor, you can apply directly yourself. The scheme is paid at the same rates as the Wage Subsidy scheme. From 28 April, the COVID-19 Leave Support scheme will cover all workers outside of the state sector, in line with the move to Alert Level 3. Applications for the COVID-19 Leave Support scheme can be made from 1 May on the Work and Income website. More information on the Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are experiencing financial distress, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Check what support you might be able to get on the online eligibility guide. More information on financial support for individuals --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status, for example, employee. Your situation, for example, reduced or zero hours. Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Audio description about getting help with money is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Financial support for employees Employers and employees working together Keeping safe at work
Home Businesses and employees Employees Keeping safe at work --- Section Separator --- If you believe there are reasons why it is not safe for you to be at work, or if you have concerns that you could be putting a member of your household bubble at risk, you should let your manager know. If you might be sick with COVID-19, or have had close contact with someone with COVID-19, you should not go into work at any Alert Level. Businesses must not allow or ask employees to work in these situations. COVID-19 symptoms and what to do if you have them If you or someone you live with may be at higher risk of severe illness from contracting COVID-19, you should discuss these concerns with your employer. Employees and employers should agree whether such workers can work from home or change their workplace arrangements to minimise the risks. Guidelines for people at higher risk of COVID-19 Businesses need to meet their health and safety obligations at all Alert Levels, including engaging staff and managing risks. If you are concerned these are not being met, you can raise it with your health and safety representative, union, or notify WorkSafe. WorkSafe information for workers during COVID-19 (external link) Addressing health and safety concerns (external link) To open under Alert Level 3, the business owner or your manager needs to have a COVID-19 safety plan in place. They should work closely with you when developing the plan, which should outline how you can work healthily and safely in a COVID-19 environment. The final plan needs to be shared with all staff who work at the business. Businesses must comply with the following rules at Alert Level 3. Your business cannot operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. Your staff should work from home if they can. Customers cannot come onto your premises unless you are a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up must also be contactless. You must maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Your workers must stay home if they are sick. For retailers, manufacturers, and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you don’t need it now. For essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders, and corrections staff, different PPE guidance applies. Ministry of Health guidance on PPE (external link) You must meet all other health and safety obligations. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations that were deemed essential under Alert Level 4 can continue to operate under Alert Level 3 as they have been. In an uncontrolled environment, such as interactions between the members of the public, a distance of 2 metres is appropriate. However, a workplace is a controlled environment and this means that risks can be managed in other ways. For example, using screens or personal protective equipment like masks and gloves may allow you to safely work at smaller distances. Don’t do activities alone if it is unsafe to do so. For example, you may need 2 people to lift heavy items safely. Consider whether you can use equipment instead. Or if the task isn’t urgent, consider leaving it until you can better manage all health and safety risks. Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you believe there are reasons why it is not safe for you to be at work, or if you have concerns that you could be putting a member of your household bubble at risk, you should let your manager know. If you might be sick with COVID-19, or have had close contact with someone with COVID-19, you should not go into work at any Alert Level. Businesses must not allow or ask employees to work in these situations. COVID-19 symptoms and what to do if you have them If you or someone you live with may be at higher risk of severe illness from contracting COVID-19, you should discuss these concerns with your employer. Employees and employers should agree whether such workers can work from home or change their workplace arrangements to minimise the risks. Guidelines for people at higher risk of COVID-19 Businesses need to meet their health and safety obligations at all Alert Levels, including engaging staff and managing risks. If you are concerned these are not being met, you can raise it with your health and safety representative, union, or notify WorkSafe. WorkSafe information for workers during COVID-19 (external link) Addressing health and safety concerns (external link) --- Section Separator --- To open under Alert Level 3, the business owner or your manager needs to have a COVID-19 safety plan in place. They should work closely with you when developing the plan, which should outline how you can work healthily and safely in a COVID-19 environment. The final plan needs to be shared with all staff who work at the business. Businesses must comply with the following rules at Alert Level 3. Your business cannot operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. Your staff should work from home if they can. Customers cannot come onto your premises unless you are a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up must also be contactless. You must maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Your workers must stay home if they are sick. For retailers, manufacturers, and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you don’t need it now. For essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders, and corrections staff, different PPE guidance applies. Ministry of Health guidance on PPE (external link) You must meet all other health and safety obligations. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations that were deemed essential under Alert Level 4 can continue to operate under Alert Level 3 as they have been. In an uncontrolled environment, such as interactions between the members of the public, a distance of 2 metres is appropriate. However, a workplace is a controlled environment and this means that risks can be managed in other ways. For example, using screens or personal protective equipment like masks and gloves may allow you to safely work at smaller distances. Don’t do activities alone if it is unsafe to do so. For example, you may need 2 people to lift heavy items safely. Consider whether you can use equipment instead. Or if the task isn’t urgent, consider leaving it until you can better manage all health and safety risks. --- Section Separator --- Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Financial support for employees Employers and employees working together Keeping safe at work
Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19. Iwi and Māori with Government agencies are working together to slow the spread of COVID-19. Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Advice about gatherings and public events, refunds for events, and reporting breaches of self-isolation. Advice for community groups, faith-based groups, clubs, societies, homeless shelters and volunteer groups. Advice to religious communities around COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19. Iwi and Māori with Government agencies are working together to slow the spread of COVID-19. Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Advice about gatherings and public events, refunds for events, and reporting breaches of self-isolation. Advice for community groups, faith-based groups, clubs, societies, homeless shelters and volunteer groups. Advice to religious communities around COVID-19.
Advice in NZSL | New Zealand Sign Language. Advice in Large Print format. Advice in Easy Read and Simplified Easy Read formats. Advice in MP3 format. --- Section Separator --- Advice in NZSL | New Zealand Sign Language. Advice in Large Print format. Advice in Easy Read and Simplified Easy Read formats. Advice in MP3 format.
Home Communities Accessible information Audio --- Section Separator --- Welfare information about: health and wellbeing financial support accommodation support schools and early childhood animal welfare information for international visitors. Listen to welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] The document this audio translation relates to Listen to rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations advice [MP3, 1.1 MB] The document this audio translation relates to Information about Alert Level 3 COVID-19 Alert Level 3 information for disabled people [MP3, 5.6 MB] The document this audio translation relates to Information from All of Government about Alert Level 4 including: staying home food and shopping essential services recreation and exercise useful contacts. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 information [MP3, 6.5 MB] The document this audio translation relates to Information about how people can get food during Alert Level 4, and support available to them. Getting food during Alert Level 4 [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare information about: health and wellbeing financial support accommodation support schools and early childhood animal welfare information for international visitors. Listen to welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] The document this audio translation relates to Listen to rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations advice [MP3, 1.1 MB] The document this audio translation relates to --- Section Separator --- Information about Alert Level 3 COVID-19 Alert Level 3 information for disabled people [MP3, 5.6 MB] The document this audio translation relates to --- Section Separator --- Information from All of Government about Alert Level 4 including: staying home food and shopping essential services recreation and exercise useful contacts. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 information [MP3, 6.5 MB] The document this audio translation relates to Information about how people can get food during Alert Level 4, and support available to them. Getting food during Alert Level 4 [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- NZSL Large Print options Easy Read Audio
Home Communities Accessible information Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read factsheets from the Ministry of Health (external link) Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home – 6 April 2020 [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home – 6 April 2020 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick – 6 April 2020 [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick – 6 April 2020 [PDF, 1.2 MB] Full welfare factsheet – getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Full welfare factsheet – getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.6 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups [DOCX, 1.4 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups [PDF, 1.3 MB] information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 604 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.6 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] Taking your animals to the vet during COVID-19 [DOCX, 1.6 MB] Taking your animals to the vet during COVID-19 [PDF, 810 KB] What people can do if they feel unsafe [DOCX, 2.3 MB] What people can do if they feel unsafe [PDF, 1.3 MB] How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [DOCX, 7.1 MB] How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [PDF, 2.2 MB] Alert Level 3 factsheet – shopping and services – 23 April 2020 [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Alert Level 3 factsheet – shopping and services – 23 April 2020 [PDF, 2.2 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [DOCX, 5.2 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] How people who are more at risk of getting sick with COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] How people who are more at risk of getting sick with COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Alert Level 4 explained [DOCX, 14 MB] Alert Level 4 explained [PDF, 4.9 MB] Getting food at Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 7.6 MB] Getting food at Alert Level 4 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Alert Level 4 explained [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Alert Level 4 explained [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read factsheets from the Ministry of Health (external link) Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home – 6 April 2020 [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home – 6 April 2020 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick – 6 April 2020 [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick – 6 April 2020 [PDF, 1.2 MB] Full welfare factsheet – getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Full welfare factsheet – getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.6 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups [DOCX, 1.4 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups [PDF, 1.3 MB] information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 604 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.6 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] Taking your animals to the vet during COVID-19 [DOCX, 1.6 MB] Taking your animals to the vet during COVID-19 [PDF, 810 KB] What people can do if they feel unsafe [DOCX, 2.3 MB] What people can do if they feel unsafe [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [DOCX, 7.1 MB] How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [PDF, 2.2 MB] Alert Level 3 factsheet – shopping and services – 23 April 2020 [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Alert Level 3 factsheet – shopping and services – 23 April 2020 [PDF, 2.2 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [DOCX, 5.2 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] The rules for travel in Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] How people who are more at risk of getting sick with COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] How people who are more at risk of getting sick with COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 4 explained [DOCX, 14 MB] Alert Level 4 explained [PDF, 4.9 MB] Getting food at Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 7.6 MB] Getting food at Alert Level 4 [PDF, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 4 explained [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Alert Level 4 explained [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- NZSL Large Print options Easy Read Audio
Home Communities Accessible information Large Print options --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 information for disabled people [DOCX, 75 KB] Alert Level 3 information for disabled people [PDF, 538 KB] Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 78 KB] Alert Level 4 [PDF, 515 KB] Welfare factsheet [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare factsheet [PDF, 357 KB] Food and shopping factsheet [DOCX, 70 KB] Food and shopping factsheet [PDF, 553 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations [PDF, 132 KB] Rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations [DOCX, 137 KB] --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 information for disabled people [DOCX, 75 KB] Alert Level 3 information for disabled people [PDF, 538 KB] Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 78 KB] Alert Level 4 [PDF, 515 KB] Welfare factsheet [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare factsheet [PDF, 357 KB] Food and shopping factsheet [DOCX, 70 KB] Food and shopping factsheet [PDF, 553 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations [PDF, 132 KB] Rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations [DOCX, 137 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZSL Large Print options Easy Read Audio
Home Communities Accessible information NZSL --- Section Separator --- The Government has released more than 60 videos in New Zealand Sign Language about COVID-19. YouTube playlist with 60+ videos (external link) Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates, and answers to your FAQs. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) New Zealand is at Alert Level 3. NZSL videos about all levels of the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) Learn the simple steps you can take in your everyday life to unite against the virus and slow its spread. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. NZSL videos about health and wellbeing (external link) NZSL videos about financial support (external link) NZSL videos about travel and transport (external link) NZSL videos for parents, caregivers and whānau (external link) NZSL videos about shopping safely (external link) Information for employers, employees and essential businesses and services. NZSL videos relating to businesses and employees (external link) Advice for community groups and volunteers. NZSL videos relating to communities (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government has released more than 60 videos in New Zealand Sign Language about COVID-19. YouTube playlist with 60+ videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates, and answers to your FAQs. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 3. NZSL videos about all levels of the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn the simple steps you can take in your everyday life to unite against the virus and slow its spread. --- Section Separator --- Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. NZSL videos about health and wellbeing (external link) NZSL videos about financial support (external link) NZSL videos about travel and transport (external link) NZSL videos for parents, caregivers and whānau (external link) NZSL videos about shopping safely (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for employers, employees and essential businesses and services. NZSL videos relating to businesses and employees (external link) --- Section Separator --- Advice for community groups and volunteers. NZSL videos relating to communities (external link) --- Section Separator --- NZSL Large Print options Easy Read Audio
All groups need to take precautions to protect their members against COVID-19. Advice for homeless shelters to help you look after your attendees, staff, and volunteers. Find ways to safely help others in your community. --- Section Separator --- All groups need to take precautions to protect their members against COVID-19. Advice for homeless shelters to help you look after your attendees, staff, and volunteers. Find ways to safely help others in your community.
Home Communities Community groups Community groups, clubs and societies --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Permitted gatherings are very limited at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people can gather only for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. No other indoor or outdoor events can proceed. This means groups like clubs or societies cannot meet physically. They can, of course, meet by teleconference or videoconference. To maintain momentum in eliminating COVID-19 gatherings must be kept to a minimum. This will mean the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. Funeral and tangi rules Supporting people who work at NGOs and charities Advice for community groups, clubs and societies All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include the workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to all community gatherings as well as family and social gatherings, such as birthdays, funerals, tangihanga or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you to only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. More information about events and gatherings Guidelines for community organisations working with volunteers at Alert Level 4 [PDF, 368 KB] Supporting people who work at NGOs and charities Advice for community groups, clubs and societies Connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help give advice for your group. Connect with them at Civil Defence (external link) Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. Ensure surfaces that are frequently touched — such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs — are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant. Ensure there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available Wherever possible design spaces so that physical distancing is possible, for example, ensuring good audio and video is available. Develop a communication plan to contact staff, volunteers and attendees whenever updates are needed. Identify actions to take to postpone or cancel events, programmes for groups at greater risk — such as people aged over 70 or vulnerable. Ensure staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them. Ensure staff, volunteers and attendees follow the simple steps. If you see or hear people or groups being picked on because of racism or discrimination, call it out. Fighting COVID-19 requires us all to unite as one. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Permitted gatherings are very limited at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people can gather only for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. No other indoor or outdoor events can proceed. This means groups like clubs or societies cannot meet physically. They can, of course, meet by teleconference or videoconference. To maintain momentum in eliminating COVID-19 gatherings must be kept to a minimum. This will mean the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. Funeral and tangi rules Supporting people who work at NGOs and charities Advice for community groups, clubs and societies --- Section Separator --- All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include the workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to all community gatherings as well as family and social gatherings, such as birthdays, funerals, tangihanga or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you to only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. More information about events and gatherings Guidelines for community organisations working with volunteers at Alert Level 4 [PDF, 368 KB] Supporting people who work at NGOs and charities Advice for community groups, clubs and societies --- Section Separator --- Connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help give advice for your group. Connect with them at Civil Defence (external link) --- Section Separator --- Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. --- Section Separator --- Ensure surfaces that are frequently touched — such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs — are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant. Ensure there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available Wherever possible design spaces so that physical distancing is possible, for example, ensuring good audio and video is available. Develop a communication plan to contact staff, volunteers and attendees whenever updates are needed. Identify actions to take to postpone or cancel events, programmes for groups at greater risk — such as people aged over 70 or vulnerable. Ensure staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them. Ensure staff, volunteers and attendees follow the simple steps. If you see or hear people or groups being picked on because of racism or discrimination, call it out. Fighting COVID-19 requires us all to unite as one. --- Section Separator --- Community groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering
Home Communities Community groups Homeless shelters --- Section Separator --- Work with them to develop a plan for what to do if a COVID-19 case is suspected or confirmed in or around your facility. Develop plans for what to do if staff or volunteers are unable to come to work due to self-isolation or illness. Develop a plan for communicating with staff, volunteers and attendees whenever updates are needed. If possible, identify space where those who become unwell can be separated from others. Designate a room and bathroom if available and develop a plan for cleaning the room safely. Ensure surfaces that are frequently touched — such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs — are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant. Ensure there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available. Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. Ensure staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them. --- Section Separator --- Work with them to develop a plan for what to do if a COVID-19 case is suspected or confirmed in or around your facility. --- Section Separator --- Develop plans for what to do if staff or volunteers are unable to come to work due to self-isolation or illness. Develop a plan for communicating with staff, volunteers and attendees whenever updates are needed. If possible, identify space where those who become unwell can be separated from others. Designate a room and bathroom if available and develop a plan for cleaning the room safely. Ensure surfaces that are frequently touched — such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs — are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant. Ensure there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available. Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. Ensure staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them. --- Section Separator --- Community groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering
Home Communities Community groups Volunteering --- Section Separator --- One of the best ways you can help others is by staying home and helping people from there. Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show you are united against COVID-19. You can make a huge difference by talking to people over the phone or online: Check in on older relatives or vulnerable people to make sure they have everything they need. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone to see how they are and if they need support. These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. Volunteers play an important role in supporting New Zealand. It is important to keep volunteers and those they help safe and well. It’s also important to coordinate our efforts so help reaches those who need it and no effort is wasted. The Volunteer Centre network is taking the details of people offering to help. If you would like to volunteer, you can see what opportunities there are to help through the Volunteering New Zealand website. Contact Volunteering New Zealand (external link) If your group would like to help with COVID-19-related work, please contact your local civil defence or council in the first instance to ensure that your support is coordinated. Contact your local civil defence group Only organisations that can operate safely may operate during Alert Level 3. People are required to work from home unless that is not possible. If you are providing services in the community using volunteers you must ensure that you operate in a manner that is safe for volunteers and your clients and complies with Alert Level 3 requirements. Find guidelines for the current Alert Level Guidelines for community organisations working with volunteers at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 163 KB] COVID-19 can live on surfaces, so any objects which pass between people are potential ways for the virus to spread. To contain the spread of COVID-19, it is important to comply with restrictions on deliveries and other community work. Support to access essential goods Advice on shopping safely Unless you are undertaking voluntary services under the direction of a recognised service provider, you should only deliver essential supplies to nearby friends, family and whānau, and close neighbours. Do this only if it is absolutely necessary. You should only deliver to a few people and you must remain loyal to these people for the entire period at Alert Levels 3 and 4. The more people you deliver to, the higher the risk. If you know someone that needs help, then let them know about the help available or enquire on their behalf if they are comfortable with you doing so. If they have an urgent need for essential goods that you can’t get or who need help and don’t have anyone who can assist them. People need to feel connected with others, but during this time that connection can’t come from being physically close or chatting in person. Could you spare 20 minutes on the phone to check in and have a conversation? A way to help is for groups to reach out to their networks and see if members can be a friend on the other end of a phone or a video call, especially for those who are on their own, aged over 70 or vulnerable. Anyone can start to feel lonely and most people appreciate a friendly voice on the other end of the phone. It doesn’t have to be about requesting support, it could just be to share some stories and keep in touch. By staying connected in other ways, we may not be as tempted to burst our bubbles and can keep saving lives. Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) --- Section Separator --- One of the best ways you can help others is by staying home and helping people from there. Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show you are united against COVID-19. You can make a huge difference by talking to people over the phone or online: Check in on older relatives or vulnerable people to make sure they have everything they need. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone to see how they are and if they need support. These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Volunteers play an important role in supporting New Zealand. It is important to keep volunteers and those they help safe and well. It’s also important to coordinate our efforts so help reaches those who need it and no effort is wasted. The Volunteer Centre network is taking the details of people offering to help. If you would like to volunteer, you can see what opportunities there are to help through the Volunteering New Zealand website. Contact Volunteering New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your group would like to help with COVID-19-related work, please contact your local civil defence or council in the first instance to ensure that your support is coordinated. Contact your local civil defence group --- Section Separator --- Only organisations that can operate safely may operate during Alert Level 3. People are required to work from home unless that is not possible. If you are providing services in the community using volunteers you must ensure that you operate in a manner that is safe for volunteers and your clients and complies with Alert Level 3 requirements. Find guidelines for the current Alert Level Guidelines for community organisations working with volunteers at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 163 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can live on surfaces, so any objects which pass between people are potential ways for the virus to spread. To contain the spread of COVID-19, it is important to comply with restrictions on deliveries and other community work. Support to access essential goods Advice on shopping safely --- Section Separator --- Unless you are undertaking voluntary services under the direction of a recognised service provider, you should only deliver essential supplies to nearby friends, family and whānau, and close neighbours. Do this only if it is absolutely necessary. You should only deliver to a few people and you must remain loyal to these people for the entire period at Alert Levels 3 and 4. The more people you deliver to, the higher the risk. If you know someone that needs help, then let them know about the help available or enquire on their behalf if they are comfortable with you doing so. If they have an urgent need for essential goods that you can’t get or who need help and don’t have anyone who can assist them. --- Section Separator --- People need to feel connected with others, but during this time that connection can’t come from being physically close or chatting in person. Could you spare 20 minutes on the phone to check in and have a conversation? A way to help is for groups to reach out to their networks and see if members can be a friend on the other end of a phone or a video call, especially for those who are on their own, aged over 70 or vulnerable. Anyone can start to feel lonely and most people appreciate a friendly voice on the other end of the phone. It doesn’t have to be about requesting support, it could just be to share some stories and keep in touch. By staying connected in other ways, we may not be as tempted to burst our bubbles and can keep saving lives. --- Section Separator --- Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering
Home Communities Gatherings and events --- Section Separator --- There is different guidance on gatherings and events depending on the Alert Level we are in. Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. The only permitted gatherings are for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. Keeping these gatherings small means the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. Workplaces, education facilities, public transport and supermarkets are not considered gatherings. If a gathering goes ahead, there are additional steps the attendees must take to ensure the gathering is safe. You should: Keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your extended bubble. Wash your hands regularly throughout the event. Make a list of those who attended. This will ensure contact tracing can happen if necessary. Do not attend if you have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be isolation/quarantine for any reason. Wedding ceremonies are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3 but are limited to 10 people or under. Wedding receptions and other celebrations are not allowed. For those holding a wedding ceremony, the limit means there can only be the couple, the celebrant, a couple of witnesses and a small number of family up to a maximum of 10 people. Other people can still attend through video conferencing. Those who do attend must keep themselves and others safe. Keep a list of those who attend, stay at least 2 meters apart and wash hands regularly. No food or drink should be consumed and there can be no reception. Under the Marriage Act, a marriage can’t happen virtually. The couple, celebrant and witnesses must be physically present in the same place. The Registrar-General’s team is offering refunds to those who cannot use the marriage licence within 3 months of getting it because of COVID-19. Email celebrants@dia.govt.nz for a refund. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3 but are limited to 10 people or under. No food or drink should be consumed at any gathering, including funerals and tangihanga. More details about funerals and tangihanga People at higher risk to severe illness from COVID-19, for example, those with underlying medical conditions should avoid gatherings at Alert Level 3. At Alert Level 4, we must limit interactions with others as much as possible to stop the spread of COVID-19. This means all indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include the workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangihanga or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. Marriage licences are issued by the Registrar-General. The Registrar-General’s role is to issue licences where the couple meets the legal requirements register celebrants register marriages and civil unions that have been legally solemnised. The Registrar-General does not approve or decline individual ceremonies. The Registrar-General does not have authority to issue permissions and exemptions for weddings or civil unions. It is up to the couple and the celebrant to use their judgement as to whether the marriage is essential and should proceed. The Registrar-General strongly advises celebrants to carefully consider any request to conduct a marriage and whether it is the right thing to do at this time, taking into account the Ministry of Health’s guidance. Celebrants need to be aware that this is not an essential service. They cannot justify their travel with the need to perform a marriage, even if it’s for someone who may not have long to live. No celebrant is obliged to conduct a ceremony. The Registrar-General advises couples who, for whatever reason, believe that they need to go ahead with a marriage to use a celebrant in their bubble or who lives close by, for example, across the street, and follow the distancing and sanitising guidelines. Under the Marriage Act, a marriage can’t occur virtually and the couple, celebrant and witnesses must be physically present in the same place. The Registrar-General’s team is offering refunds to those who are not able to use the marriage licence within 3 months of getting it because of COVID-19. Simply email celebrants@dia.govt.nz for a refund. Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. More details about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate, and you are certain the individuals concerned are not following alert level requirements, please complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is different guidance on gatherings and events depending on the Alert Level we are in. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. The only permitted gatherings are for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. Keeping these gatherings small means the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. Workplaces, education facilities, public transport and supermarkets are not considered gatherings. If a gathering goes ahead, there are additional steps the attendees must take to ensure the gathering is safe. You should: Keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your extended bubble. Wash your hands regularly throughout the event. Make a list of those who attended. This will ensure contact tracing can happen if necessary. Do not attend if you have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be isolation/quarantine for any reason. Wedding ceremonies are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3 but are limited to 10 people or under. Wedding receptions and other celebrations are not allowed. For those holding a wedding ceremony, the limit means there can only be the couple, the celebrant, a couple of witnesses and a small number of family up to a maximum of 10 people. Other people can still attend through video conferencing. Those who do attend must keep themselves and others safe. Keep a list of those who attend, stay at least 2 meters apart and wash hands regularly. No food or drink should be consumed and there can be no reception. Under the Marriage Act, a marriage can’t happen virtually. The couple, celebrant and witnesses must be physically present in the same place. The Registrar-General’s team is offering refunds to those who cannot use the marriage licence within 3 months of getting it because of COVID-19. Email celebrants@dia.govt.nz for a refund. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3 but are limited to 10 people or under. No food or drink should be consumed at any gathering, including funerals and tangihanga. More details about funerals and tangihanga People at higher risk to severe illness from COVID-19, for example, those with underlying medical conditions should avoid gatherings at Alert Level 3. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we must limit interactions with others as much as possible to stop the spread of COVID-19. This means all indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include the workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangihanga or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. Marriage licences are issued by the Registrar-General. The Registrar-General’s role is to issue licences where the couple meets the legal requirements register celebrants register marriages and civil unions that have been legally solemnised. The Registrar-General does not approve or decline individual ceremonies. The Registrar-General does not have authority to issue permissions and exemptions for weddings or civil unions. It is up to the couple and the celebrant to use their judgement as to whether the marriage is essential and should proceed. The Registrar-General strongly advises celebrants to carefully consider any request to conduct a marriage and whether it is the right thing to do at this time, taking into account the Ministry of Health’s guidance. Celebrants need to be aware that this is not an essential service. They cannot justify their travel with the need to perform a marriage, even if it’s for someone who may not have long to live. No celebrant is obliged to conduct a ceremony. The Registrar-General advises couples who, for whatever reason, believe that they need to go ahead with a marriage to use a celebrant in their bubble or who lives close by, for example, across the street, and follow the distancing and sanitising guidelines. Under the Marriage Act, a marriage can’t occur virtually and the couple, celebrant and witnesses must be physically present in the same place. The Registrar-General’s team is offering refunds to those who are not able to use the marriage licence within 3 months of getting it because of COVID-19. Simply email celebrants@dia.govt.nz for a refund. Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. More details about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. --- Section Separator --- If you believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate, and you are certain the individuals concerned are not following alert level requirements, please complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Māori Pacific Peoples Accessible information Gatherings and events Community groups Religious communities
Advice on tikanga Māori and gatherings during COVID-19. Te Whare Tapa Whā is a tool we can use to help look after ourselves and those in our poihou ora (bubble). Resources to support iwi responding to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Advice on tikanga Māori and gatherings during COVID-19. Te Whare Tapa Whā is a tool we can use to help look after ourselves and those in our poihou ora (bubble). Resources to support iwi responding to COVID-19.
Home Communities Māori Resources for iwi --- Section Separator --- Te Arawhiti is the Office for Māori Crown Relations. It has COVID-19 iwi support resources available, including information on funding opportunities and epidemic response plans. You can download templates and view sample response plans made public by other iwi, and a step-by-step guide on applying for funding to support your iwi with their COVID-19 response. Te Arawhiti (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri, the Ministry for Māori Development, has information about key issues that could affect you and your whānau, along with guidance on how to manage the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 information for Māori (external link) Television, the internet and hard copy learning packs are some of the ways whānau and ākonga Māori will be supported when schools and kura begin term 2. Media release from Hon Kelvin Davis (external link) The Government announced a plan to support Māori communities and businesses through COVID-19. Media release from Hon Peeni Henare (external link) The Government has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with the hard-hit region of Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be the first helped. Media release from Hon Phil Twyford, Hon Shane Jones and Hon Willie Jackson (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Arawhiti is the Office for Māori Crown Relations. It has COVID-19 iwi support resources available, including information on funding opportunities and epidemic response plans. You can download templates and view sample response plans made public by other iwi, and a step-by-step guide on applying for funding to support your iwi with their COVID-19 response. Te Arawhiti (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Puni Kōkiri, the Ministry for Māori Development, has information about key issues that could affect you and your whānau, along with guidance on how to manage the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 information for Māori (external link) --- Section Separator --- Television, the internet and hard copy learning packs are some of the ways whānau and ākonga Māori will be supported when schools and kura begin term 2. Media release from Hon Kelvin Davis (external link) The Government announced a plan to support Māori communities and businesses through COVID-19. Media release from Hon Peeni Henare (external link) The Government has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with the hard-hit region of Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be the first helped. Media release from Hon Phil Twyford, Hon Shane Jones and Hon Willie Jackson (external link) --- Section Separator --- Tikanga Māori and gatherings Resources for whānau Resources for iwi
Home Communities Māori Resources for whānau --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the four cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or one of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The four cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can slow down the spread of COVID-19 by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home physical distancing cleaning surfaces which have been touched. If you feel unwell or have any COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . About COVID-19 How Aotearoa is uniting against COVID-19 Our daily lives may look very different now. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you cope with the stress of COVID-19. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting through together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Some churches and spiritual groups are leading their services online via websites and social media. Contact your hāhi or church, ask your aunties, uncles, kaumātua, or members of your church or spiritual group about how you can join these services online. Help kaumātua and whānau in your poihou ora (bubble) to search for karakia, hīmene and waiata online. Your iwi will likely have their waiata available online too. Tikanga Māori and gatherings Taha whānau is wider than the people in your poihou ora (bubble). This includes your relationships with people who you would normally spend regular time with — your extended whānau, hapū and iwi, community groups, sports team, kapa haka, class-mates and kura. Staying in touch by phone or video calls, like Zui or Zoom hui, can help to deepen connections and strengthen your taha whānau. At Alert Level 3 you can add to your household bubble to make life easier — but it’s important you keep it as small as possible. Choose a whānau member, caregiver, or a person living on their own to join your household bubble. Golden rules for Alert Level 3 in English [PDF, 80 KB] Golden rules for Alert Level 3 in Te Reo Māori [PDF, 311 KB] Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: essential costs for whānau a wage subsidy for kaimahi redundancy support support for renters and tenants mortgage repayments How to get financial support Te Puni Kōkiri’s, the Ministry for Māori Development’s, social media channels showcase whānau throughout the motu. Follow them for updates on key Government information and resources. Te Puni Kōkiri on Facebook (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Instagram (external link) Protect our whakapapa (external link) COVID-19 information is also available in te reo Māori. Te reo Māori resources #Manaaki20 is all about keeping whānau connected and informed, and inspiring whānau by sharing stories of what we’re doing to keep each other healthy, well and connected. #Manaaki20 website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the four cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or one of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The four cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can slow down the spread of COVID-19 by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home physical distancing cleaning surfaces which have been touched. If you feel unwell or have any COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . About COVID-19 How Aotearoa is uniting against COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Our daily lives may look very different now. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you cope with the stress of COVID-19. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting through together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Some churches and spiritual groups are leading their services online via websites and social media. Contact your hāhi or church, ask your aunties, uncles, kaumātua, or members of your church or spiritual group about how you can join these services online. Help kaumātua and whānau in your poihou ora (bubble) to search for karakia, hīmene and waiata online. Your iwi will likely have their waiata available online too. Tikanga Māori and gatherings --- Section Separator --- Taha whānau is wider than the people in your poihou ora (bubble). This includes your relationships with people who you would normally spend regular time with — your extended whānau, hapū and iwi, community groups, sports team, kapa haka, class-mates and kura. Staying in touch by phone or video calls, like Zui or Zoom hui, can help to deepen connections and strengthen your taha whānau. At Alert Level 3 you can add to your household bubble to make life easier — but it’s important you keep it as small as possible. Choose a whānau member, caregiver, or a person living on their own to join your household bubble. Golden rules for Alert Level 3 in English [PDF, 80 KB] Golden rules for Alert Level 3 in Te Reo Māori [PDF, 311 KB] --- Section Separator --- Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: essential costs for whānau a wage subsidy for kaimahi redundancy support support for renters and tenants mortgage repayments How to get financial support --- Section Separator --- Te Puni Kōkiri’s, the Ministry for Māori Development’s, social media channels showcase whānau throughout the motu. Follow them for updates on key Government information and resources. Te Puni Kōkiri on Facebook (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Instagram (external link) Protect our whakapapa (external link) COVID-19 information is also available in te reo Māori. Te reo Māori resources --- Section Separator --- #Manaaki20 is all about keeping whānau connected and informed, and inspiring whānau by sharing stories of what we’re doing to keep each other healthy, well and connected. #Manaaki20 website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Tikanga Māori and gatherings Resources for whānau Resources for iwi
Home Communities Māori Tikanga Māori and gatherings --- Section Separator --- Many groups including kapa haka groups, sports teams, whānau, hapu, iwi and Māori organisations and marae committees have cancelled all upcoming events. It is disappointing to have to cancel planned events, however, it is about doing what’s right to protect our people and our guests — manaaki tangata, otirā manaaki manuhiri hoki. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. This will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa. In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and all other forms of close physical contact with people outside of your household. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Advice for public events and mass gatherings (external link) Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. Kāua e wareware, it is still quite restrictive. Kia haumaru te noho: stay at home to stop the spread and protect your whānau and kaumātua. The only permitted gatherings are for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. Formal tangihanga are unable to occur under Alert Level 3 due to the restrictions on numbers. Meals and receptions are not allowed. Information on funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. We are asking you to only spend time with people in your household and keep your distance from all others at all times. This will help us stop the spread of COVID-19 and protect our whānau, hapū and iwi, particularly those who are more vulnerable to illness such as our kaumātua – our koroua and kuia. Gathering together for tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Guidance on tangihanga and funerals, and where to go for more information Guidelines for tangihanga during Alert Level 4 (external link) You can take care of your environmental/kaitiaki responsibilities for awa, maunga and ngahere, as long as it does not require travel well outside the regional boundary, or into difficult or remote terrain. If this is NGO or paid work activity, maintain physical distancing, handwashing and other public health measures. If this is personal activity, you can only do this with people in your household bubble. --- Section Separator --- Many groups including kapa haka groups, sports teams, whānau, hapu, iwi and Māori organisations and marae committees have cancelled all upcoming events. It is disappointing to have to cancel planned events, however, it is about doing what’s right to protect our people and our guests — manaaki tangata, otirā manaaki manuhiri hoki. --- Section Separator --- We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. This will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa. In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and all other forms of close physical contact with people outside of your household. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Advice for public events and mass gatherings (external link) --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. Kāua e wareware, it is still quite restrictive. Kia haumaru te noho: stay at home to stop the spread and protect your whānau and kaumātua. The only permitted gatherings are for: funerals and tangihanga wedding ceremonies, not receptions. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. Formal tangihanga are unable to occur under Alert Level 3 due to the restrictions on numbers. Meals and receptions are not allowed. Information on funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. We are asking you to only spend time with people in your household and keep your distance from all others at all times. This will help us stop the spread of COVID-19 and protect our whānau, hapū and iwi, particularly those who are more vulnerable to illness such as our kaumātua – our koroua and kuia. Gathering together for tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Guidance on tangihanga and funerals, and where to go for more information Guidelines for tangihanga during Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can take care of your environmental/kaitiaki responsibilities for awa, maunga and ngahere, as long as it does not require travel well outside the regional boundary, or into difficult or remote terrain. If this is NGO or paid work activity, maintain physical distancing, handwashing and other public health measures. If this is personal activity, you can only do this with people in your household bubble. --- Section Separator --- Tikanga Māori and gatherings Resources for whānau Resources for iwi
Home Communities Pacific Peoples --- Section Separator --- View Episode 2 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View Episode 1 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Information, updates and advice are available in 9 Pacific languages to help communities unite against COVID-19. Cook Islands Māori | Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Fijian | Vosa Vakaviti Kiribati | Te taetae ni Kiribati Niuean | Vagahau Niue Rotuman | Fäeag Rotųam Samoan | Gagana Samoa Tokelauan | Te Gagana Tokelau Tongan | Lea Faka Tonga Tuvaluan | Te Gana Tuvalu A Pacific Peoples bulletin with the latest updates, information and resources from the past 24 hours. Pacific Peoples daily bulletin (external link) Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific Languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) Cabinet has agreed that $17 million will be allocated to support a COVID-19 Pacific response package. COVID-19 Pacific response package (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself is a suite of practical resources and information. It explains how to manage frustration or anger and maintain respectful relationships while staying at home during COVID-19 lockdown. #CatchYourself (external link) COVID-19 WhatsApp channel available in Tongan, Samoan, Fijian and Cook Islands Māori. Join the WhatsApp channel (external link) Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from Home (external link) Wage Subsidy (external link) Work and Income Benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace Operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- View Episode 2 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View Episode 1 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information, updates and advice are available in 9 Pacific languages to help communities unite against COVID-19. Cook Islands Māori | Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Fijian | Vosa Vakaviti Kiribati | Te taetae ni Kiribati Niuean | Vagahau Niue Rotuman | Fäeag Rotųam Samoan | Gagana Samoa Tokelauan | Te Gagana Tokelau Tongan | Lea Faka Tonga Tuvaluan | Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- A Pacific Peoples bulletin with the latest updates, information and resources from the past 24 hours. Pacific Peoples daily bulletin (external link) Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific Languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) Cabinet has agreed that $17 million will be allocated to support a COVID-19 Pacific response package. COVID-19 Pacific response package (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself is a suite of practical resources and information. It explains how to manage frustration or anger and maintain respectful relationships while staying at home during COVID-19 lockdown. #CatchYourself (external link) COVID-19 WhatsApp channel available in Tongan, Samoan, Fijian and Cook Islands Māori. Join the WhatsApp channel (external link) Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from Home (external link) Wage Subsidy (external link) Work and Income Benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace Operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Māori Pacific Peoples Accessible information Gatherings and events Community groups Religious communities
Home Communities Religious communities --- Section Separator --- Gatherings cannot go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and will also impact a number of other religious practices. The Alert Level 4 rules for gatherings and events still apply under Alert Level 3, with limited exceptions. Weddings, funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. See more information on gatherings and events As with Alert Level 4, many places of worship are using a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, Imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. At Alert Level 4, all religious gatherings and events cannot proceed. Many places of worship are catering for communities using a variety of online methods. More information on gatherings and events People who would normally perform a religious role at funerals and tangihanga, such as priests, cannot perform funerals in person during Alert Level 4. They are not on the list of essential services for Alert Level 4, and therefore should be staying at home. E-funerals are a way that religious leaders can continue to provide their services to grieving families during this difficult time. Bereaved families will find this especially difficult, but it is important that as few people as possible travel and interact with other people so we can eradicate COVID-19. Read more information on funerals and tangihanga Advice about paid, volunteer and charity workers and how they can be managed Looking after your community group Mosques and other faith-based venues must remain closed during Alert Levels 3 and 4, although at Alert Level 3 mosque workers may go into the mosque to work, for example, to conduct an online service. You and your bubble can come together to mark religious events such as Ramadan. At Alert Level 3, you can expand your bubble to include close family and caregivers, or to support isolated people. However, you must keep your bubble small and exclusive at all times. You are encouraged to hold iftar (breaking the fast at sunset) and isha (the last prayers of the day) within your bubble. If Eid (the end of Ramadan) occurs during Alert Level 3, you must remain in your household bubble. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. Customers cannot enter the premises. Meat should either be collected outside the store, or delivered direct to the home. If the dying person is in a hospital or other health facility, the Imam or religious person may visit to perform the rites of passage and practical tasks around that person’s death, but they will need to adhere to the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Different rules apply at Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 4. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 4 (external link) At Alert Level 3, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend the funeral. We have information sheets for Muslim communities available in different languages: Information for Muslim communities Arabic | معلومات للجاليات المسلمة [PDF, 183 KB] Information for Muslim communities Bengali | মুসলিম সম্প্রদায়ের জন্য তথ্য [PDF, 221 KB] Information for Muslim communities Dari | معلومات برای جوامع مسلمانان [PDF, 217 KB] Information for Muslim communities Farsi | اطلاعات مربوط به جوامع مسلمان [PDF, 184 KB] Information for Muslim communities Indonesian | Informasi untuk komunitas Muslim [PDF, 170 KB] Information for Muslim communities Pashto | د مسلمانو ټولنو لپاره معلومات [PDF, 219 KB] Information for Muslim communities Somali | Macluumaadka loogu talo galay bulshooyinka Muslimka ah [PDF, 172 KB] Information for Muslim communities Urdu | مسلمان کمیونٹیوں کے لئے معلومات [PDF, 185 KB] --- Section Separator --- Gatherings cannot go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and will also impact a number of other religious practices. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Level 4 rules for gatherings and events still apply under Alert Level 3, with limited exceptions. Weddings, funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. See more information on gatherings and events As with Alert Level 4, many places of worship are using a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, Imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all religious gatherings and events cannot proceed. Many places of worship are catering for communities using a variety of online methods. More information on gatherings and events People who would normally perform a religious role at funerals and tangihanga, such as priests, cannot perform funerals in person during Alert Level 4. They are not on the list of essential services for Alert Level 4, and therefore should be staying at home. E-funerals are a way that religious leaders can continue to provide their services to grieving families during this difficult time. Bereaved families will find this especially difficult, but it is important that as few people as possible travel and interact with other people so we can eradicate COVID-19. Read more information on funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- Advice about paid, volunteer and charity workers and how they can be managed Looking after your community group --- Section Separator --- Mosques and other faith-based venues must remain closed during Alert Levels 3 and 4, although at Alert Level 3 mosque workers may go into the mosque to work, for example, to conduct an online service. You and your bubble can come together to mark religious events such as Ramadan. At Alert Level 3, you can expand your bubble to include close family and caregivers, or to support isolated people. However, you must keep your bubble small and exclusive at all times. You are encouraged to hold iftar (breaking the fast at sunset) and isha (the last prayers of the day) within your bubble. If Eid (the end of Ramadan) occurs during Alert Level 3, you must remain in your household bubble. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. Customers cannot enter the premises. Meat should either be collected outside the store, or delivered direct to the home. If the dying person is in a hospital or other health facility, the Imam or religious person may visit to perform the rites of passage and practical tasks around that person’s death, but they will need to adhere to the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Different rules apply at Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 4. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 4 (external link) At Alert Level 3, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend the funeral. We have information sheets for Muslim communities available in different languages: Information for Muslim communities Arabic | معلومات للجاليات المسلمة [PDF, 183 KB] Information for Muslim communities Bengali | মুসলিম সম্প্রদায়ের জন্য তথ্য [PDF, 221 KB] Information for Muslim communities Dari | معلومات برای جوامع مسلمانان [PDF, 217 KB] Information for Muslim communities Farsi | اطلاعات مربوط به جوامع مسلمان [PDF, 184 KB] Information for Muslim communities Indonesian | Informasi untuk komunitas Muslim [PDF, 170 KB] Information for Muslim communities Pashto | د مسلمانو ټولنو لپاره معلومات [PDF, 219 KB] Information for Muslim communities Somali | Macluumaadka loogu talo galay bulshooyinka Muslimka ah [PDF, 172 KB] Information for Muslim communities Urdu | مسلمان کمیونٹیوں کے لئے معلومات [PDF, 185 KB] --- Section Separator --- Māori Pacific Peoples Accessible information Gatherings and events Community groups Religious communities
Find the latest COVID-19 case data and information on how it spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest COVID-19 case data and information on how it spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus.
The Ministry of Health is publishing data about the cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses, such as influenza. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases. Information about COVID-19 testing in New Zealand. Information about test results, getting diagnosed, treatment and criteria for recovering from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is publishing data about the cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses, such as influenza. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases. Information about COVID-19 testing in New Zealand. Information about test results, getting diagnosed, treatment and criteria for recovering from COVID-19.
Home COVID-19 About COVID-19 Contact tracing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Once a case has been identified, the Ministry of Health and district health boards track down people who may have been exposed to the virus through contact tracing. Health services use contact tracing to find people who may have been exposed to an infectious disease. There are two types of contacts — close contacts and casual contacts. Health services give advice to both of these contact types on what they need to do. On the Ministry of Health website you can find more information about contact tracing, including: contact tracing phone calls more detailed definitions of close contacts and casual contacts informative fact sheets. Contact tracing for COVID-19 on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once a case has been identified, the Ministry of Health and district health boards track down people who may have been exposed to the virus through contact tracing. Health services use contact tracing to find people who may have been exposed to an infectious disease. There are two types of contacts — close contacts and casual contacts. Health services give advice to both of these contact types on what they need to do. On the Ministry of Health website you can find more information about contact tracing, including: contact tracing phone calls more detailed definitions of close contacts and casual contacts informative fact sheets. Contact tracing for COVID-19 on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health data COVID-19 symptoms How COVID-19 spreads Contact tracing for COVID-19 COVID-19 testing Diagnosis with COVID-19
Home COVID-19 About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Having them does not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. Symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have these symptoms please call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or you can call your doctor immediately. If you're outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Call your doctor before visiting. We don’t yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it is 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- Having them does not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. Symptoms include: a cough a high temperature of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have these symptoms please call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or you can call your doctor immediately. If you're outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Call your doctor before visiting. --- Section Separator --- We don’t yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it is 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- Health data COVID-19 symptoms How COVID-19 spreads Contact tracing for COVID-19 COVID-19 testing Diagnosis with COVID-19
Home COVID-19 About COVID-19 COVID-19 testing --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, you should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider or GP. They will help you understand what you need to do next. Some people may need to be tested for COVID-19. Testing is an important part of helping us eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. A high number of tests across the country helps us: identify cases of COVID-19 manage clusters of cases when we find them track how well our efforts are working. New Zealand already has high rates of testing and good test capacity, but work is continuing to increase both. You may hear people talk about the “case definition”. The case definition is a medical term for the document which outlines the symptoms, risks and other actions around a particular illness. To help local health authorities assess people who may be ill, the Ministry of Health has set a case definition for COVID-19 that provides guidance to health providers about what they should take into account when deciding if someone should be tested. The case definition is a guide only — health professionals are the best people to decide when testing is needed. They will continue to use their clinical judgement. If you meet the case definition, you may be referred to be tested. Your health professional will work with you and make sure you know where to go and what to do. A person might meet the current case definition if they are unwell with an acute respiratory infection, and have at least one other symptom: a cough sore throat head cold loss of sense of smell. They do not need to have a fever to meet the current case definition. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold or flu. We want to make sure that we’re reaching everyone who may be affected by COVID-19. Getting assessed early helps protect those around you and helps New Zealand eliminate COVID-19. If you have symptoms you think match the case definition, please call: your GP iwi health provider, or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthline will tell you what you need to do. There is more than one way to test for COVID-19, for example, a nose swab or a sputum test. Whatever form a test takes, it involves collecting a sample from you that is then sent to a lab to be analysed. The results may take some time. Anyone being tested will be told when and how to expect their results. Whether you test positive or negative, you should be notified about your results. You should continue to act as though you have COVID-19 and self-isolate until you are notified of your results. Anyone being tested should follow the advice they are given at the time about what to do next. For a small number of people, you may meet the case definition but not be tested. You may be considered a “probable” case. You will need to self-isolate just as if you had a positive test result. There is no difference in the actions needed by someone who tests positive for COVID-19 and someone who is a probable case. Our health system is set up and ready to support anyone who tests positive for COVID-19. Whenever someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise them on what they need to do. For most people this will mean self-isolating at home. Teams also immediately start work to identify and contact anyone that those who have tested positive may have come into close contact with. If you go to get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough into your elbow, cover any sneezes and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. You will need to follow any instructions you’re given like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. Those testing you will be wearing protective equipment likes gowns or masks — this is nothing to be worried about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. In some areas of the country Community Based Assessment Centres (CBACs) have been set up. These are often separate to regular healthcare centres and may be in temporary facilities. You may be directed to a CBAC by your health professional for testing. It is important you follow all instructions given to you to ensure our healthcare workers at the CBAC stay safe. These testing centres give New Zealand more ability to test and help keep people who might have COVID-19 away from hospitals and other health centres where people may be vulnerable. You can find out more about the exact arrangements for your area by visiting the website of your local district health board. Auckland District Health Board (external link) Bay of Plenty District Health Board (external link) Capital & Coast District Health Board (external link) Counties Manukau District Health Board (external link) Hawke's Bay District Health Board (external link) Hutt Valley District Health Board (external link) Lakes District Health Board (external link) MidCentral District Health Board (external link) Northland District Health Board (external link) Tairāwhiti District Health Board (external link) Taranaki District Health Board (external link) Waikato District Health Board (external link) Wairarapa District Health Board (external link) Waitematā District Health Board (external link) Whanganui District Health Board (external link) Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Nelson Marlborough District Health Board (external link) South Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Southern District Health Board (external link) West Coast District Health Board (external link) The Ministry of Health is providing a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of the spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, you should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider or GP. They will help you understand what you need to do next. Some people may need to be tested for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Testing is an important part of helping us eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. A high number of tests across the country helps us: identify cases of COVID-19 manage clusters of cases when we find them track how well our efforts are working. New Zealand already has high rates of testing and good test capacity, but work is continuing to increase both. You may hear people talk about the “case definition”. The case definition is a medical term for the document which outlines the symptoms, risks and other actions around a particular illness. To help local health authorities assess people who may be ill, the Ministry of Health has set a case definition for COVID-19 that provides guidance to health providers about what they should take into account when deciding if someone should be tested. The case definition is a guide only — health professionals are the best people to decide when testing is needed. They will continue to use their clinical judgement. If you meet the case definition, you may be referred to be tested. Your health professional will work with you and make sure you know where to go and what to do. A person might meet the current case definition if they are unwell with an acute respiratory infection, and have at least one other symptom: a cough sore throat head cold loss of sense of smell. They do not need to have a fever to meet the current case definition. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold or flu. --- Section Separator --- We want to make sure that we’re reaching everyone who may be affected by COVID-19. Getting assessed early helps protect those around you and helps New Zealand eliminate COVID-19. If you have symptoms you think match the case definition, please call: your GP iwi health provider, or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthline will tell you what you need to do. --- Section Separator --- There is more than one way to test for COVID-19, for example, a nose swab or a sputum test. Whatever form a test takes, it involves collecting a sample from you that is then sent to a lab to be analysed. The results may take some time. Anyone being tested will be told when and how to expect their results. Whether you test positive or negative, you should be notified about your results. You should continue to act as though you have COVID-19 and self-isolate until you are notified of your results. Anyone being tested should follow the advice they are given at the time about what to do next. For a small number of people, you may meet the case definition but not be tested. You may be considered a “probable” case. You will need to self-isolate just as if you had a positive test result. There is no difference in the actions needed by someone who tests positive for COVID-19 and someone who is a probable case. Our health system is set up and ready to support anyone who tests positive for COVID-19. Whenever someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise them on what they need to do. For most people this will mean self-isolating at home. Teams also immediately start work to identify and contact anyone that those who have tested positive may have come into close contact with. If you go to get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough into your elbow, cover any sneezes and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. You will need to follow any instructions you’re given like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. Those testing you will be wearing protective equipment likes gowns or masks — this is nothing to be worried about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. --- Section Separator --- In some areas of the country Community Based Assessment Centres (CBACs) have been set up. These are often separate to regular healthcare centres and may be in temporary facilities. You may be directed to a CBAC by your health professional for testing. It is important you follow all instructions given to you to ensure our healthcare workers at the CBAC stay safe. These testing centres give New Zealand more ability to test and help keep people who might have COVID-19 away from hospitals and other health centres where people may be vulnerable. You can find out more about the exact arrangements for your area by visiting the website of your local district health board. Auckland District Health Board (external link) Bay of Plenty District Health Board (external link) Capital & Coast District Health Board (external link) Counties Manukau District Health Board (external link) Hawke's Bay District Health Board (external link) Hutt Valley District Health Board (external link) Lakes District Health Board (external link) MidCentral District Health Board (external link) Northland District Health Board (external link) Tairāwhiti District Health Board (external link) Taranaki District Health Board (external link) Waikato District Health Board (external link) Wairarapa District Health Board (external link) Waitematā District Health Board (external link) Whanganui District Health Board (external link) Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Nelson Marlborough District Health Board (external link) South Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Southern District Health Board (external link) West Coast District Health Board (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is providing a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of the spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health data COVID-19 symptoms How COVID-19 spreads Contact tracing for COVID-19 COVID-19 testing Diagnosis with COVID-19
Home COVID-19 About COVID-19 Diagnosis with COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have been tested for COVID-19, a healthcare professional will inform you of the result regardless of whether you have tested positive or negative. Whenever someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise them on what they need to do. For most people this will mean self-isolating at home. Teams also immediately start work to identify and contact anyone that those who have tested positive may have come into close contact with. Currently, there is no specific treatment for COVID-19, but medical care can treat most of the symptoms. There is currently no vaccine for COVID-19 as it is a new virus. Researchers are in the early stages of developing one. For a person to be recovered from COVID-19, they must meet the following criteria: It must have been at least 10 days since the onset of their symptoms. After the 10 days, they need to have been clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. If a person was hospitalised, it must be at least 10 days since they were discharged from hospital and they must be clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. They also must not have major immunosuppression, for example being within a year of bone marrow transplant or receiving chemotherapy. --- Section Separator --- If you have been tested for COVID-19, a healthcare professional will inform you of the result regardless of whether you have tested positive or negative. --- Section Separator --- Whenever someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise them on what they need to do. For most people this will mean self-isolating at home. Teams also immediately start work to identify and contact anyone that those who have tested positive may have come into close contact with. --- Section Separator --- Currently, there is no specific treatment for COVID-19, but medical care can treat most of the symptoms. There is currently no vaccine for COVID-19 as it is a new virus. Researchers are in the early stages of developing one. --- Section Separator --- For a person to be recovered from COVID-19, they must meet the following criteria: It must have been at least 10 days since the onset of their symptoms. After the 10 days, they need to have been clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. If a person was hospitalised, it must be at least 10 days since they were discharged from hospital and they must be clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. They also must not have major immunosuppression, for example being within a year of bone marrow transplant or receiving chemotherapy. --- Section Separator --- Health data COVID-19 symptoms How COVID-19 spreads Contact tracing for COVID-19 COVID-19 testing Diagnosis with COVID-19
Home COVID-19 About COVID-19 Health data --- Section Separator --- You can find data on: confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the number of people who have recovered how many people are and have been in hospital cases by district health board (DHB), and by age and gender. Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Ministry of Health data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. These reports show the importance of the Alert Level 4 lockdown and other government actions in slowing the spread of COVID-19. Read the COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is providing a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of the spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find data on: confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the number of people who have recovered how many people are and have been in hospital cases by district health board (DHB), and by age and gender. Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Ministry of Health data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. These reports show the importance of the Alert Level 4 lockdown and other government actions in slowing the spread of COVID-19. Read the COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is providing a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of the spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health data COVID-19 symptoms How COVID-19 spreads Contact tracing for COVID-19 COVID-19 testing Diagnosis with COVID-19
Home COVID-19 About COVID-19 How COVID-19 spreads --- Section Separator --- The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands, and use good cough and sneeze etiquette. --- Section Separator --- The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands, and use good cough and sneeze etiquette. --- Section Separator --- Health data COVID-19 symptoms How COVID-19 spreads Contact tracing for COVID-19 COVID-19 testing Diagnosis with COVID-19
Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It keeps the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Staying at home is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19 and save lives. Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show we are united against COVID-19. Physical distancing is an important way we can unite against COVID-19. Now is a good time to be extra vigilant with cleaning. --- Section Separator --- Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It keeps the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Staying at home is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19 and save lives. Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show we are united against COVID-19. Physical distancing is an important way we can unite against COVID-19. Now is a good time to be extra vigilant with cleaning.
Home COVID-19 How we're uniting Cleaning surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. More information about cleaning surfaces on thespinoff.co.nz website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. --- Section Separator --- Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. More information about cleaning surfaces on thespinoff.co.nz website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home COVID-19 How we're uniting Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a facemask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. --- Section Separator --- Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. --- Section Separator --- For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a facemask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home COVID-19 How we're uniting Looking after others --- Section Separator --- You can make a huge difference by: checking in on older relatives or vulnerable people over the phone, to make sure they have everything they need talking to friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone to see how they are and if they need support dropping essential supplies, like food or medications, to those at home. You can leave them at the door. These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. How to look after your mental health --- Section Separator --- You can make a huge difference by: checking in on older relatives or vulnerable people over the phone, to make sure they have everything they need talking to friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone to see how they are and if they need support dropping essential supplies, like food or medications, to those at home. You can leave them at the door. These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. How to look after your mental health --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home COVID-19 How we're uniting Physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. It’s best not to shake hands, kiss hello or hongi for now. Where you can, keep a bit of space. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa, as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia. In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. As a nation we did a great job at Alert Level 4 of staying in our bubble and maintaining physical distancing when we went outside. This is one of the key reasons we were able to move down to Alert Level 3 and we have to keep it up. Outside of your home, you must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers must maintain physical distance in the workplace. Advice on staying home and self-isolation Outside of your home, or if you are sick, keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Advice on staying home and self-isolation --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. It’s best not to shake hands, kiss hello or hongi for now. Where you can, keep a bit of space. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa, as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia. In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. --- Section Separator --- As a nation we did a great job at Alert Level 4 of staying in our bubble and maintaining physical distancing when we went outside. This is one of the key reasons we were able to move down to Alert Level 3 and we have to keep it up. Outside of your home, you must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers must maintain physical distance in the workplace. Advice on staying home and self-isolation --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, or if you are sick, keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Advice on staying home and self-isolation --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home COVID-19 How we're uniting Stay home --- Section Separator --- If you have any of these symptoms, call your GP before you visit: a fever cough shortness of breath sneezing or a runny nose. If you do not have a GP, call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. You also need to: stay at home avoid close or prolonged contact with people you live with stay off public transport stay away from supermarkets and other essential businesses. More information for self-isolating if you’re unwell Stay home whenever you are not at work, school, exercising or getting supplies. If you can work or learn from home, you should do so. People can extend their bubble to reconnect with close family and whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s okay to leave home to visit your extended bubble members. Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 3 You can leave your house to access essential services, like buying groceries, or going to a bank or pharmacy, or to go for a walk, exercise and enjoy nature. Vulnerable people in particular should stay at home and self-isolate. Print your stay at home plan [PDF, 1.5 MB] Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- If you have any of these symptoms, call your GP before you visit: a fever cough shortness of breath sneezing or a runny nose. If you do not have a GP, call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. You also need to: stay at home avoid close or prolonged contact with people you live with stay off public transport stay away from supermarkets and other essential businesses. More information for self-isolating if you’re unwell --- Section Separator --- Stay home whenever you are not at work, school, exercising or getting supplies. If you can work or learn from home, you should do so. People can extend their bubble to reconnect with close family and whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s okay to leave home to visit your extended bubble members. Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- You can leave your house to access essential services, like buying groceries, or going to a bank or pharmacy, or to go for a walk, exercise and enjoy nature. Vulnerable people in particular should stay at home and self-isolate. Print your stay at home plan [PDF, 1.5 MB] Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home COVID-19 How we're uniting Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses — as long as you use soap. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. --- Section Separator --- The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses — as long as you use soap. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Looking after your health and wellbeing during COVID-19. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Advice is available on all aspects of domestic and international travel. More advice for renters and homeowners, about waste collection and animal welfare. Advice about shopping during COVID-19. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Guidance to help keep children safe and reassured, and to help manage childcare, shared custody, and education. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. --- Section Separator --- Looking after your health and wellbeing during COVID-19. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Advice is available on all aspects of domestic and international travel. More advice for renters and homeowners, about waste collection and animal welfare. Advice about shopping during COVID-19. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Guidance to help keep children safe and reassured, and to help manage childcare, shared custody, and education. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed.
Home Individuals and households Financial support --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status, for example lost job due to COVID-19. Your situation, for example business is unable to operate. Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, mortgage, board, emergency housing repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria, and how to apply (external link) Work and Income call centres are experiencing very high demand at the moment, so we recommend you check its website first.  If you don’t have access to the internet you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you are worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. A range of options is available to help. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with offers tips, guides and tools support online or you can email it at office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) Follow Sorted on Facebook (external link) View helpful videos on the Sorted YouTube channel (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you are worried about the costs of your power bills due to COVID-19, talk to your retailer about other options, such as a moving to a more affordable plan. If you are vulnerable, in financial hardship, or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) The Keep New Zealand Working online recruitment tool connects job seekers directly to the employer making it quicker and easier for people to find work. The tool also provides online training courses. Work and Income’s online Recruitment Tool (external link) If you are renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Help could include a 6-month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having your tenancy ended. It is important tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness during this challenging time. This will also enable families and individuals to self-isolate, to stay home and maintain physical distancing, and support everyone’s public health. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development has more information (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It is important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach A Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the Government’s media release on beehive.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status, for example lost job due to COVID-19. Your situation, for example business is unable to operate. Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, mortgage, board, emergency housing repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria, and how to apply (external link) Work and Income call centres are experiencing very high demand at the moment, so we recommend you check its website first.  If you don’t have access to the internet you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you are worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. A range of options is available to help. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with offers tips, guides and tools support online or you can email it at office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) Follow Sorted on Facebook (external link) View helpful videos on the Sorted YouTube channel (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you are worried about the costs of your power bills due to COVID-19, talk to your retailer about other options, such as a moving to a more affordable plan. If you are vulnerable, in financial hardship, or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Keep New Zealand Working online recruitment tool connects job seekers directly to the employer making it quicker and easier for people to find work. The tool also provides online training courses. Work and Income’s online Recruitment Tool (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Help could include a 6-month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having your tenancy ended. It is important tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness during this challenging time. This will also enable families and individuals to self-isolate, to stay home and maintain physical distancing, and support everyone’s public health. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development has more information (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It is important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. --- Section Separator --- Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach A Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the Government’s media release on beehive.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health and wellbeing Financial support COVID-19 financial support tool COVID-19 financial support tool Travel Life at home Shopping Misinformation and scams Parents, caregivers, and whānau In an emergency
Advice on all aspects of healthcare, whether or not you have COVID-19. Advice on how to look after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Suggestions and ideas about how you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. Advice about the influenza vaccine. Advice about staying at home and self-isolating If you are unwell, it is vital you stay home and recover. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Guidelines for people at higher risk of COVID-19. Advice about what to do when someone passes away and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. --- Section Separator --- Advice on all aspects of healthcare, whether or not you have COVID-19. Advice on how to look after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Suggestions and ideas about how you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. Advice about the influenza vaccine. Advice about staying at home and self-isolating If you are unwell, it is vital you stay home and recover. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Guidelines for people at higher risk of COVID-19. Advice about what to do when someone passes away and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga.
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing At-risk people --- Section Separator --- These guidelines are not the final rule, we will update it as more evidence becomes available. COVID-19 can become a severe illness if you have existing underlying medical conditions. It is especially dangerous if these conditions are not well controlled. More detailed guidance has been developed for people who are at higher risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. Essential in-home care is permitted at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease such as chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher diabetes chronic kidney disease people undergoing dialysis liver disease. Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: cancer treatment smoking related illness bone marrow or organ transplantation haematologic neoplasms immune deficiencies poorly controlled HIV or AIDS prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Pregnant women in their third trimester should take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. Pregnant women working in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, should discuss and agree with their employer an assessment of the risk and options for working differently if needed. If you can't safely work at your workplace, and can't work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. Avoid close contact with people with cold or flu-like illnesses. It also helps if you follow advice around keeping safe. How to wash your hands Coughing or sneezing advice Additional measures that you and your whānau and friends can take include: staying at home and asking others to pick up supplies for you. Ask them to leave these at the door, rather than come in stay at least 2 metres away from people who are unwell if you're unwell, avoid contact with people if your health care provider advises you to wear a mask when in public because you have a particularly vulnerable immune system, follow that advice if you're taking immunosuppressive drugs, we advise that you do not stop this medication without first consulting your GP or specialist. How people who are more at risk of COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] How people who are more at risk of COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- These guidelines are not the final rule, we will update it as more evidence becomes available. COVID-19 can become a severe illness if you have existing underlying medical conditions. It is especially dangerous if these conditions are not well controlled. --- Section Separator --- More detailed guidance has been developed for people who are at higher risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. Essential in-home care is permitted at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease such as chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher diabetes chronic kidney disease people undergoing dialysis liver disease. Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: cancer treatment smoking related illness bone marrow or organ transplantation haematologic neoplasms immune deficiencies poorly controlled HIV or AIDS prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Pregnant women in their third trimester should take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. Pregnant women working in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, should discuss and agree with their employer an assessment of the risk and options for working differently if needed. If you can't safely work at your workplace, and can't work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) --- Section Separator --- You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. Avoid close contact with people with cold or flu-like illnesses. It also helps if you follow advice around keeping safe. How to wash your hands Coughing or sneezing advice Additional measures that you and your whānau and friends can take include: staying at home and asking others to pick up supplies for you. Ask them to leave these at the door, rather than come in stay at least 2 metres away from people who are unwell if you're unwell, avoid contact with people if your health care provider advises you to wear a mask when in public because you have a particularly vulnerable immune system, follow that advice if you're taking immunosuppressive drugs, we advise that you do not stop this medication without first consulting your GP or specialist. --- Section Separator --- How people who are more at risk of COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] How people who are more at risk of COVID-19 can keep safe at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Exercising safely --- Section Separator --- Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there is a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. We need to keep doing our bit so that our gains in Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. You can do activities that are local, safe, and do not involve interaction with other people outside your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. You should also keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble. You can do more activities at Alert Level 3 but only if you’re experienced and do them safely. These include: surfing — if you are an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf fishing — if you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but don’t cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you are experienced and know the trail hunting — you can hunt on private land, but not on public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed swimming — in safe local spots. Don’t take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Boating, yachting and any team sports or training are not allowed. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. Staying overnight at a bach or holiday home is not permitted. You should drive as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. If you live on a regional boundary, this might mean travelling to a neighbouring region. This is fine as long as it’s still local and a close distance from your home. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Walks and other activities like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Don’t use services like share-bikes or hire scooters. Whenever you are out and about be extremely careful of “high touch items” like handrails, gates and park benches. Avoid touching these and if you can’t avoid it, wash or sanitise your hands before touching your face or eating. Make sure you: don’t meet people who are not in your bubble to go for a walk or to the park, or do any other non-essential activity tell someone in your bubble where you’re going and how long you plan to be gone for. Take a mobile phone with you so you can be contacted or contact others if you need to. Thoroughly wash your hands when you return home. Stay close to home. Enjoy your neighbourhood, but go no further. For example, if you live near a beach, you may go for a walk down to the waterfront. But don’t drive to another suburb to go to the beach. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving with it to a park. You can walk to a local park but you need to keep your distance from others who may also be there. “Local” means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. City dwellers may have a supermarket, pharmacy or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to drive further. If you do leave your house, you must always keep a 2 metre distance from other people who are not part of your household. If an area is too crowded to keep to a 2 metre space between you and others, go home. Don’t stop and chat, smile and wave instead. You can do outdoor activities with your household in your backyard, like backyard soccer or cricket. Be careful your ball doesn’t go into the neighbour’s house as they won’t be able to touch it or return it. --- Section Separator --- Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there is a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. We need to keep doing our bit so that our gains in Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. You can do activities that are local, safe, and do not involve interaction with other people outside your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. You should also keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble. You can do more activities at Alert Level 3 but only if you’re experienced and do them safely. These include: surfing — if you are an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf fishing — if you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but don’t cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you are experienced and know the trail hunting — you can hunt on private land, but not on public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed swimming — in safe local spots. Don’t take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Boating, yachting and any team sports or training are not allowed. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. Staying overnight at a bach or holiday home is not permitted. You should drive as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. If you live on a regional boundary, this might mean travelling to a neighbouring region. This is fine as long as it’s still local and a close distance from your home. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Walks and other activities like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Don’t use services like share-bikes or hire scooters. Whenever you are out and about be extremely careful of “high touch items” like handrails, gates and park benches. Avoid touching these and if you can’t avoid it, wash or sanitise your hands before touching your face or eating. Make sure you: don’t meet people who are not in your bubble to go for a walk or to the park, or do any other non-essential activity tell someone in your bubble where you’re going and how long you plan to be gone for. Take a mobile phone with you so you can be contacted or contact others if you need to. Thoroughly wash your hands when you return home. Stay close to home. Enjoy your neighbourhood, but go no further. For example, if you live near a beach, you may go for a walk down to the waterfront. But don’t drive to another suburb to go to the beach. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving with it to a park. You can walk to a local park but you need to keep your distance from others who may also be there. “Local” means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. City dwellers may have a supermarket, pharmacy or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to drive further. If you do leave your house, you must always keep a 2 metre distance from other people who are not part of your household. If an area is too crowded to keep to a 2 metre space between you and others, go home. Don’t stop and chat, smile and wave instead. You can do outdoor activities with your household in your backyard, like backyard soccer or cricket. Be careful your ball doesn’t go into the neighbour’s house as they won’t be able to touch it or return it. --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Family violence and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- The Government and the Police continue to take family violence and sexual violence very seriously. Violence is a crime at any time. Family violence and sexual violence services are essential services and will remain available, even if services need to be delivered in different ways. It is okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the Police on 111 , even if you’re not sure. Stay as connected as you can, and keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check-in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines continue to be available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) – for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your Local Women's Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services in your area (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Victim Support – call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit Victim Support's website to find out how they can support victims during COVID-19 (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre – call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women's Refuge – call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women's Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services – free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you're experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine's helpline (external link) Family violence information line – call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline – call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust – call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand – call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres – call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand – call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust – call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit – call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline – call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they're going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako – text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop – support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 – free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline – call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline – call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight – call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki – call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ – call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) You, me, us – promoting healthy queer, trans and takatāpui relationships Find out more about You, me, us (external link) What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble Easy Read [DOCX, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble Easy Read [PDF, 1.3 MB] What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government and the Police continue to take family violence and sexual violence very seriously. Violence is a crime at any time. Family violence and sexual violence services are essential services and will remain available, even if services need to be delivered in different ways. --- Section Separator --- It is okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the Police on 111 , even if you’re not sure. Stay as connected as you can, and keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check-in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines continue to be available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) – for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your Local Women's Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services in your area (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Victim Support – call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit Victim Support's website to find out how they can support victims during COVID-19 (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre – call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women's Refuge – call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women's Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services – free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you're experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine's helpline (external link) Family violence information line – call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline – call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust – call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand – call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres – call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand – call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust – call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit – call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline – call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they're going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako – text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop – support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 – free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline – call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline – call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight – call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki – call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ – call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) You, me, us – promoting healthy queer, trans and takatāpui relationships Find out more about You, me, us (external link) --- Section Separator --- What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble Easy Read [DOCX, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble Easy Read [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has passed away. Get in touch with a local funeral director who will help you organise next steps. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to be undertaken. Their health provider will assist you in the first instance, and the Police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director once you have appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Your local funeral director can provide initial information and guidance. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Information after a death – Te Hokinga ā Wairua End of Life Service (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. For tangihanga, you can contact your iwi or hapū for support. Guidelines are available for Pacific Peoples. Funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples [PDF, 123 KB] Find translations of the funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you are used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. They must take place at a funeral home. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga you should still keep 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, for example, those with underlying medical conditions, should avoid gatherings. No food or drink should be consumed at any gathering, including funerals and tangi. More about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 (external link) You can travel between regions to attend a funeral or tangihanga. However no more than 10 people can attend a funeral or tangi, so you need to confirm that you are among those 10 people before travelling. You do not need documentation to travel. If you are questioned, you should explain that you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. Where possible show any available documentation you have, for example, a notice of service from the funeral home. Can I go to a funeral? (external link) To stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. This means: no public funeral services no tangihanga or funerals at marae, funeral homes, churches and other venues no private whānau tangihanga at home. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Only people from the same self-isolation bubble as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This applies to all deceased persons, regardless of when and where they died, or the cause of death. It includes gatherings at burials, cremations, memorial services, open or closed caskets or viewings, funeral wakes, processions or receptions and social gatherings, both indoors and outdoors. Guidelines for tangihanga at Alert Level 4 (external link) We must protect people’s health and ensure our health system can look after all people in New Zealand who become sick. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangihanga after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. People who would normally perform a religious role at funerals and tangihanga, such as priests, cannot perform funerals in person during Alert Level 4. They are not on the list of essential services for Alert Level 4, and therefore should be staying at home. Online funerals are a way that religious leaders can continue to provide their services to grieving families during this difficult time. Bereaved families will find this especially difficult, but it is important that as few people as possible travel and interact with other people so we can eradicate COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has passed away. Get in touch with a local funeral director who will help you organise next steps. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to be undertaken. Their health provider will assist you in the first instance, and the Police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director once you have appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Your local funeral director can provide initial information and guidance. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Information after a death – Te Hokinga ā Wairua End of Life Service (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. For tangihanga, you can contact your iwi or hapū for support. Guidelines are available for Pacific Peoples. Funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples [PDF, 123 KB] Find translations of the funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples --- Section Separator --- You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you are used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. They must take place at a funeral home. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga you should still keep 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, for example, those with underlying medical conditions, should avoid gatherings. No food or drink should be consumed at any gathering, including funerals and tangi. More about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 (external link) You can travel between regions to attend a funeral or tangihanga. However no more than 10 people can attend a funeral or tangi, so you need to confirm that you are among those 10 people before travelling. You do not need documentation to travel. If you are questioned, you should explain that you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. Where possible show any available documentation you have, for example, a notice of service from the funeral home. --- Section Separator --- Can I go to a funeral? (external link) --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. This means: no public funeral services no tangihanga or funerals at marae, funeral homes, churches and other venues no private whānau tangihanga at home. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Only people from the same self-isolation bubble as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This applies to all deceased persons, regardless of when and where they died, or the cause of death. It includes gatherings at burials, cremations, memorial services, open or closed caskets or viewings, funeral wakes, processions or receptions and social gatherings, both indoors and outdoors. Guidelines for tangihanga at Alert Level 4 (external link) We must protect people’s health and ensure our health system can look after all people in New Zealand who become sick. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangihanga after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. People who would normally perform a religious role at funerals and tangihanga, such as priests, cannot perform funerals in person during Alert Level 4. They are not on the list of essential services for Alert Level 4, and therefore should be staying at home. Online funerals are a way that religious leaders can continue to provide their services to grieving families during this difficult time. Bereaved families will find this especially difficult, but it is important that as few people as possible travel and interact with other people so we can eradicate COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111, or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, contact your GP. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Your doctor would rather you call than silently worry at home. If you think you’ve been exposed to COVID-19 through contact with someone who has it, it’s important to let your family doctor know when you call. COVID-19 symptoms If you are concerned about possible COVID-19 symptoms you are experiencing, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 08 00 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and postnatally. COVID-19 Welfare Advice includes information about seeking medical advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] Please only call Healthline, or your doctor, when you need medical assistance. If your call is not directly related to medical assistance, you may be able to find answers to your questions on this website. Staying healthy is important so you should continue to seek primary healthcare during Alert Levels 3 and 4. During Alert Levels 3 and 4, medical centres, pharmacies and hospitals are still open. You can access all the treatments, vaccinations and medicines that you need to stay well, whether or not you have COVID-19. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your GP. Your doctor may offer you a consultation by text, email, phone or video. This is to stop person-to-person contact. If, however, your doctor feels you need a consultation in person, they will organise this for you. You are allowed to travel during Alert Levels 3 and 4 to access medical support. You can drive to a medical centre or hospital. Just call first so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you may be asked to use a particular entrance, or to wait outside in your car until you are called. If you are sick you should avoid public transport when travelling to a medical appointment. Essential in-home care for those with disabilities or health conditions is permitted. Services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. Phone your medical centre if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor may wish to support you without seeing you face to face. Pharmacies are an essential service and will remain open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, phone first to make sure you can go in-store. If you are an at-risk group you may need to ask someone to pick up your medicines on your behalf. At-risk and vulnerable groups If your doctor has advised that you need to travel outside of your area for specialist healthcare, you may do so during Alert Levels 3 and 4. However, your doctor may decide that you can defer treatment, or have a virtual consultation instead. If you do need to travel to a medical appointment outside your area, your doctor may advise you take a support person with you to provide physical help, or to help you make healthcare decisions. However, you should consider whether you can be supported remotely, for example by phone. Anyone under 18 years of age may take a parent, whānau member or caregiver to the appointment. Most people should take just 1 support person from your existing household group or bubble to your medical appointment. However, some people, for example pregnant women, may need to have up to 2 support people. Ask your health provider for advice. If you do need to travel outside your local area, ask your doctor for a letter to confirm your appointment, and take this with you on your journey. Follow Ministry of Health advice to keep yourself and your support person safe (external link) You are at high risk if you are over 70, pregnant or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying health conditions include those with liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease, diabetes, respiratory issues or those with a compromised immune system, or who are on immunosuppressant medications. If you are self-isolating because you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case, and you live with an older or vulnerable person, you should reduce close contact with that person. Self-isolation advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) If you are pregnant or have recently given birth the way you receive medical care may be affected. During your pregnancy, you may have fewer face-to-face check-ups. Your midwife will still contact you over the phone or by video call. When you give birth, maternity facilities will have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, inform your midwife or midwifery practice. Information for pregnant women and those who have recently given birth (external link) Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: call your family doctor for advice or information on all aspects of your health. If you think you’ve been exposed to COVID-19 through contact with someone who has it, it’s important to let your family doctor know. call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number with any COVID-19 health-related concerns on 0800 358 5453 . If you're outside New Zealand call + 64 9 358 5453 . you can also call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 for any other health concerns.  All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and postnatally. In an emergency, always call 111 . The Ministry of Health regularly updates its webpage with detailed health advice (external link) Can I access other community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [DOCX, 5.2 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111, or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, contact your GP. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Your doctor would rather you call than silently worry at home. If you think you’ve been exposed to COVID-19 through contact with someone who has it, it’s important to let your family doctor know when you call. COVID-19 symptoms If you are concerned about possible COVID-19 symptoms you are experiencing, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 08 00 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and postnatally. COVID-19 Welfare Advice includes information about seeking medical advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] Please only call Healthline, or your doctor, when you need medical assistance. If your call is not directly related to medical assistance, you may be able to find answers to your questions on this website. --- Section Separator --- Staying healthy is important so you should continue to seek primary healthcare during Alert Levels 3 and 4. During Alert Levels 3 and 4, medical centres, pharmacies and hospitals are still open. You can access all the treatments, vaccinations and medicines that you need to stay well, whether or not you have COVID-19. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your GP. Your doctor may offer you a consultation by text, email, phone or video. This is to stop person-to-person contact. If, however, your doctor feels you need a consultation in person, they will organise this for you. You are allowed to travel during Alert Levels 3 and 4 to access medical support. You can drive to a medical centre or hospital. Just call first so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you may be asked to use a particular entrance, or to wait outside in your car until you are called. If you are sick you should avoid public transport when travelling to a medical appointment. Essential in-home care for those with disabilities or health conditions is permitted. Services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Phone your medical centre if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor may wish to support you without seeing you face to face. Pharmacies are an essential service and will remain open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, phone first to make sure you can go in-store. If you are an at-risk group you may need to ask someone to pick up your medicines on your behalf. At-risk and vulnerable groups --- Section Separator --- If your doctor has advised that you need to travel outside of your area for specialist healthcare, you may do so during Alert Levels 3 and 4. However, your doctor may decide that you can defer treatment, or have a virtual consultation instead. If you do need to travel to a medical appointment outside your area, your doctor may advise you take a support person with you to provide physical help, or to help you make healthcare decisions. However, you should consider whether you can be supported remotely, for example by phone. Anyone under 18 years of age may take a parent, whānau member or caregiver to the appointment. Most people should take just 1 support person from your existing household group or bubble to your medical appointment. However, some people, for example pregnant women, may need to have up to 2 support people. Ask your health provider for advice. If you do need to travel outside your local area, ask your doctor for a letter to confirm your appointment, and take this with you on your journey. Follow Ministry of Health advice to keep yourself and your support person safe (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are at high risk if you are over 70, pregnant or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying health conditions include those with liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease, diabetes, respiratory issues or those with a compromised immune system, or who are on immunosuppressant medications. If you are self-isolating because you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case, and you live with an older or vulnerable person, you should reduce close contact with that person. Self-isolation advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are pregnant or have recently given birth the way you receive medical care may be affected. During your pregnancy, you may have fewer face-to-face check-ups. Your midwife will still contact you over the phone or by video call. When you give birth, maternity facilities will have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, inform your midwife or midwifery practice. Information for pregnant women and those who have recently given birth (external link) --- Section Separator --- Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: call your family doctor for advice or information on all aspects of your health. If you think you’ve been exposed to COVID-19 through contact with someone who has it, it’s important to let your family doctor know. call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number with any COVID-19 health-related concerns on 0800 358 5453 . If you're outside New Zealand call + 64 9 358 5453 . you can also call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 for any other health concerns.  All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and postnatally. In an emergency, always call 111 . The Ministry of Health regularly updates its webpage with detailed health advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- Can I access other community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [DOCX, 5.2 MB] How to get healthcare at Alert Level 3 – 23 April 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Influenza vaccine --- Section Separator --- To look after our community and make sure our health system is there for those who need it most, we all need to look after our vulnerable populations. One way to do this is to make sure those most at risk of influenza, get immunised first. Get vaccinated against influenza early if you are one of these priority groups: People aged 65 and over. Pregnant women. People with a serious health condition such as severe asthma, diabetes, cancer, or heart disease, and young children with a history of severe respiratory illness. Full list of eligible health conditions (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) --- Section Separator --- To look after our community and make sure our health system is there for those who need it most, we all need to look after our vulnerable populations. One way to do this is to make sure those most at risk of influenza, get immunised first. Get vaccinated against influenza early if you are one of these priority groups: People aged 65 and over. Pregnant women. People with a serious health condition such as severe asthma, diabetes, cancer, or heart disease, and young children with a history of severe respiratory illness. Full list of eligible health conditions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Can I get a flu shot? (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed about COVID-19, or you may feel lonely when you are self-isolating. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. While there are things that we can’t control now, there are things we can do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of your loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other to get through this. While we are limiting social contact to contain the spread of COVID-19, there are still lots of ways we can connect. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared in the current situation. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, have regular e-meetings with colleagues or virtual coffee dates with friends and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling alone or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your media intake. Get the facts from this website to help distinguish facts from rumours. Seek information updates at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Notice if your symptoms are getting worse. Talk to your GP, counsellor, caseworker or mental health team about how they can continue supporting you. Community mental health service appointments will be online or by phone where possible, however there may be some face-to-face urgent appointments, so long as professionals can take appropriate measures to manage public health risks. Listen to the tips from your treatment provider to help you get through. You may also want to consider who you can call if you need urgent help. Reach out to your usual supports such as whānau, friends and workmates. If it is not possible to meet in person, then connect by phone, web chat or email. Sharing how we feel and offering support to others is important. If you feel you're not coping, it's important to talk with a health professional. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Tell yourself that how you are feeling is a normal reaction and will pass and that it is nothing to be afraid of. We’re all in this together, and even if we can't be physically in touch for whatever reason, it’s important to stay connected in other ways. New Zealand is known for its manaakitanga and now more than ever we need to remember the power of kindness and uniting together. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, or you don’t know who to contact for help, call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. Free apps, toolkits, and other digital resources are available to help New Zealanders look after their mental wellbeing. You can find tips and advice on how to cope with the stress of COVID-19 in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources can help you get through, stay connected, and support your wellbeing. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark, and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to connect and support each other, and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) This online course teaches practical strategies to cope with the stress and disruption to everyday life from COVID-19. Staying on Track (external link) Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home Easy Read [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home Easy Read [PDF, 1.9 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing Large Print [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing Large Print [DOCX, 71 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] Audio description of looking after your mental wellbeing during COVID-19 [MP3, 2.3 MB] Audio description of looking after your mental wellbeing is included the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed about COVID-19, or you may feel lonely when you are self-isolating. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. --- Section Separator --- While there are things that we can’t control now, there are things we can do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of your loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other to get through this. While we are limiting social contact to contain the spread of COVID-19, there are still lots of ways we can connect. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared in the current situation. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, have regular e-meetings with colleagues or virtual coffee dates with friends and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling alone or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your media intake. Get the facts from this website to help distinguish facts from rumours. Seek information updates at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Notice if your symptoms are getting worse. Talk to your GP, counsellor, caseworker or mental health team about how they can continue supporting you. Community mental health service appointments will be online or by phone where possible, however there may be some face-to-face urgent appointments, so long as professionals can take appropriate measures to manage public health risks. Listen to the tips from your treatment provider to help you get through. You may also want to consider who you can call if you need urgent help. --- Section Separator --- Reach out to your usual supports such as whānau, friends and workmates. If it is not possible to meet in person, then connect by phone, web chat or email. Sharing how we feel and offering support to others is important. If you feel you're not coping, it's important to talk with a health professional. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Tell yourself that how you are feeling is a normal reaction and will pass and that it is nothing to be afraid of. We’re all in this together, and even if we can't be physically in touch for whatever reason, it’s important to stay connected in other ways. New Zealand is known for its manaakitanga and now more than ever we need to remember the power of kindness and uniting together. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, or you don’t know who to contact for help, call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Free apps, toolkits, and other digital resources are available to help New Zealanders look after their mental wellbeing. You can find tips and advice on how to cope with the stress of COVID-19 in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources can help you get through, stay connected, and support your wellbeing. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark, and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to connect and support each other, and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) This online course teaches practical strategies to cope with the stress and disruption to everyday life from COVID-19. Staying on Track (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home Easy Read [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Looking after how you are feeling while staying at home Easy Read [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Large Print [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing Large Print [DOCX, 71 KB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Audio description of looking after your mental wellbeing during COVID-19 [MP3, 2.3 MB] Audio description of looking after your mental wellbeing is included the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Self-isolation advice if you're unwell --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Everybody you live with must stay at home. If somebody you live with develops symptoms of COVID-19 like a cough, fever, shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose, they should call their regular doctor. If they do not have a regular doctor they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, you should not be sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. This includes areas like kitchen benches and sink tops. If you use a shared toilet and bathroom, it’s important that you clean them after you have used them every time. For example, wiping surfaces you have come into contact with. It's a good idea to be the last to use the shower/bath in the morning or evening to make this easier on those you live with. You should use your own roll of toilet paper, hand towels, toothpaste and other supplies during your illness. If you share a kitchen with others, avoid using it while others are present. Take your meals back to your room to eat. It may be easier for someone else in your household to prepare your food and you avoid the kitchen area. If you have a dishwasher use it to clean and dry your used crockery and cutlery. If this is not possible, wash them using your usual washing up liquid and warm water and dry them thoroughly, remembering to use a separate tea towel. We understand that it will be difficult for some people to separate themselves from others at home. You should do your very best to follow this guidance and everyone in your household should regularly wash their hands, avoid touching their face and clean frequently touched surfaces. Don’t share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, you should wash them thoroughly with soap and water, place them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or wash them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but you should not prepare food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. Breastfeeding is always important, but especially in times of emergency. Breastfeeding provides immunological protections to the breastfed child. Most often, babies who are breastfed remain healthy even when their parents or other family members are unwell with an infectious illness. Considering the benefits of breastfeeding, and how seldom breastmilk transmits respiratory viruses, you can continue breastfeeding while applying all necessary precautions: Wash your hands before and after contact with your baby including feeding, nappy change, holding. Clean and disinfect any surfaces you touch around you. Avoid coughing or sneezing on your baby. Ensure you cough or sneeze into your elbow or a tissue that you put into the bin or a bag immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. If you have become infected with COVID-19 shortly before giving birth, or if you have symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 and are waiting for test results, your midwife and the doctors caring for you will advise you about the potential for your baby to develop COVID-19 through close contact. There is no evidence that COVID-19 is transmitted through breastmilk, so you can still choose to breastfeed while taking some additional specific precautions. To reduce the spread of COVID-19 while breastfeeding: continue handwashing before and after you feed wear a surgical mask. These will be provided by your midwife avoid kissing and touching your baby’s face and avoid touching your own face increase the cleaning and disinfecting of contaminated surfaces. This should be done in all cases where anyone with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 interacts with others, including children. If you are too unwell to breastfeed, you should express your milk and give it to your baby via a bottle — all while following the same infection prevention methods. If you become unwell in the days or weeks after giving birth and you are breastfeeding your baby, it is important not to interrupt breastfeeding. Your baby will already have been exposed to the virus and will benefit from continued breastfeeding. Your baby will also be considered a close contact of a confirmed case and you will be provided advice about this from your Public Health Unit. While you are unwell, don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. You should not have visitors to your home, but it is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. You should also avoid visiting others if you are unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. You should do your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’ve recovered and the isolation period has ended before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you have read through these self-isolation guidelines and believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate and you are certain the individuals concerned should be self-isolating complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. --- Section Separator --- Everybody you live with must stay at home. If somebody you live with develops symptoms of COVID-19 like a cough, fever, shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose, they should call their regular doctor. If they do not have a regular doctor they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, you should not be sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. This includes areas like kitchen benches and sink tops. If you use a shared toilet and bathroom, it’s important that you clean them after you have used them every time. For example, wiping surfaces you have come into contact with. It's a good idea to be the last to use the shower/bath in the morning or evening to make this easier on those you live with. You should use your own roll of toilet paper, hand towels, toothpaste and other supplies during your illness. If you share a kitchen with others, avoid using it while others are present. Take your meals back to your room to eat. It may be easier for someone else in your household to prepare your food and you avoid the kitchen area. If you have a dishwasher use it to clean and dry your used crockery and cutlery. If this is not possible, wash them using your usual washing up liquid and warm water and dry them thoroughly, remembering to use a separate tea towel. We understand that it will be difficult for some people to separate themselves from others at home. You should do your very best to follow this guidance and everyone in your household should regularly wash their hands, avoid touching their face and clean frequently touched surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Don’t share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, you should wash them thoroughly with soap and water, place them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or wash them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but you should not prepare food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. --- Section Separator --- Breastfeeding is always important, but especially in times of emergency. Breastfeeding provides immunological protections to the breastfed child. Most often, babies who are breastfed remain healthy even when their parents or other family members are unwell with an infectious illness. Considering the benefits of breastfeeding, and how seldom breastmilk transmits respiratory viruses, you can continue breastfeeding while applying all necessary precautions: Wash your hands before and after contact with your baby including feeding, nappy change, holding. Clean and disinfect any surfaces you touch around you. Avoid coughing or sneezing on your baby. Ensure you cough or sneeze into your elbow or a tissue that you put into the bin or a bag immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. If you have become infected with COVID-19 shortly before giving birth, or if you have symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 and are waiting for test results, your midwife and the doctors caring for you will advise you about the potential for your baby to develop COVID-19 through close contact. There is no evidence that COVID-19 is transmitted through breastmilk, so you can still choose to breastfeed while taking some additional specific precautions. To reduce the spread of COVID-19 while breastfeeding: continue handwashing before and after you feed wear a surgical mask. These will be provided by your midwife avoid kissing and touching your baby’s face and avoid touching your own face increase the cleaning and disinfecting of contaminated surfaces. This should be done in all cases where anyone with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 interacts with others, including children. If you are too unwell to breastfeed, you should express your milk and give it to your baby via a bottle — all while following the same infection prevention methods. If you become unwell in the days or weeks after giving birth and you are breastfeeding your baby, it is important not to interrupt breastfeeding. Your baby will already have been exposed to the virus and will benefit from continued breastfeeding. Your baby will also be considered a close contact of a confirmed case and you will be provided advice about this from your Public Health Unit. --- Section Separator --- While you are unwell, don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. You should not have visitors to your home, but it is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. You should also avoid visiting others if you are unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. --- Section Separator --- You should do your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’ve recovered and the isolation period has ended before taking your laundry to a laundrette. --- Section Separator --- If you have read through these self-isolation guidelines and believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate and you are certain the individuals concerned should be self-isolating complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [DOCX, 2.8 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Home Individuals and households Health and wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation --- Section Separator --- More detailed guidance has been developed for people who are at higher risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19, including people who are aged 70 and over or have certain existing health conditions. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you are able to live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 [PDF, 609 KB] Allocate another person in your household to pick up supplies. If you live alone, ask friends or family and whānau to drop off anything you need — including food and medicine or other essential supplies — or you can order online and request a home delivery. Make sure any deliveries are left outside your home for you to collect. No one should come inside. If your friends or family deliver supplies to you, ask them to let you know when they have dropped it off, and they can remain nearby to ensure you have received it. Physical activity is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, this can also present a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others. It is very important to stay safe, and to stay physically distant from people outside of your household bubble. Advice on recreation and exercising safely If there is another emergency while you are required to stay at home, follow normal emergency procedures. If you feel an earthquake: drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong: get gone”. If you are advised to evacuate by authorities because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area, keep a 2 metre physical distance from other people who are not in your bubble. If you are unwell, it is vital you stay home and recover. Advice on how to self-isolate if you’re unwell Alert Level 3 means you must stay at home other than for essential personal movement, such as buying groceries, exercising, seeing the doctor or going to work or school. However, you can now slightly extend your household bubble to include people such as close family members, caregivers or someone who needs care. Keep your extended bubble local, small and exclusive. If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Even in a controlled environment such as a workplace, you need to maintain physical distance. At Alert Level 3, you should still take measures to stay safe and well: regularly disinfect surfaces wash and dry your hands thoroughly and regularly don’t touch your face stay home if you are sick get tested for COVID-19 if you have flu-like symptoms — call your GP or Healthline continue to seek primary medical care. Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 3. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. As soon as you feel unwell, you should immediately self-isolate from others in your household bubble. You can talk to your employer about sick leave if you have any concerns about taking time off. If you have COVID-19 symptoms you should either call your GP straight away, or contact Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You need to limit contact with people outside your household bubble to reduce the risk of transmission. You can have a quick chat with neighbours if you are 2 metres apart, however, you should avoid congregating with other people. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers Alert Level 3 is still about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your current or slightly extended household bubble presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements. If you are part of a shared household group, for example if you have shared custody of your children and they have been moving between households in the same community, this can continue at Alert Level 3. If you live alone, you can join up with another person living alone, or you can join a small household. You must live in the same neighbourhood, and not interact with anyone else. You cannot join more than one household bubble. If your bubble is unsafe, you can leave immediately to seek help. Talk to a trusted neighbour or friend and then call the police or Women’s Refuge. Support available for family or sexual violence The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) Alert Level 4 means you can only have in-person contact with the people in your household bubble. You cannot have contact with any other people outside your household bubble. If you have a confirmed COVID-19 case or symptoms, are a close contact of a case or have recently travelled overseas, refer to the specific guidance for those groups – you should be self-isolating. You should minimise trips outside your home, and stay at home as much as possible. As long as you're not unwell or have not recently returned from overseas, you can leave your house to: access essential services, like to buy groceries, or go to a bank or pharmacy go for a walk, or exercise and enjoy nature – stick to your local area go to work if you are an essential worker visit or stay at another residence in your household bubble . If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Police will be monitoring people and asking questions of people who are out and about during the Alert Level 4 lockdown to check what they are doing. Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 4. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You cannot meet up with people outside your household bubble. Do not meet up with friends, family and whānau, or allow them to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers Alert Level 4 is about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your household presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements: Children in shared custody arrangements can move between 2 households if they are in the same community. If you live alone, you can join up with another person living alone or a small household. You must live in the same neighbourhood and not interact with anyone else. You cannot join up with more than one household or bubble. Unsafe or life-threatening circumstances require you to move from your household. There is help available if you’re in this situation or concerned for someone else. Support available for family or sexual violence Take common-sense precautions to limit close contact with those you live with. Everybody you live with will also be staying at home, unless they work for an essential service. What to do if somebody you live with becomes unwell while self-isolating The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) Essential workers must stay within their household bubble when they are not at work. Essential workers must maintain a high level of hygiene to keep others in their household safe, including washing their hands, clothes and surfaces regularly, especially after returning from work. Their workplace will also be required to put appropriate safety measures in place to ensure these people are safe at work. Most essential workers will not require personal protective equipment (PPE). As always, anyone who is unwell should not be at work. You must stay at home if: you’re sick with COVID-19, have COVID-19 symptoms or are unwell generally you need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines, due to recent travel or close contact with someone confirmed to have COVID-19 you are caring for dependants who need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines. You may also wish to stay at home if: you, or someone you live with, meets the definition of an at-risk person, including those who are over 70, pregnant, taking certain medications or receiving certain treatment. These people are advised to stay home at Alert Level 2 or higher you do not believe your workplace has adequate health and safety measures to minimise your risk of contracting COVID-19. The Government will make sure essential workers who take leave from work to comply with public health guidance will still receive income. The leave scheme for essential workers helps businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19. Guidance for essential workers and essential businesses (external link) Self-isolation and having a place to stay Easy Read [DOCX, 3.6 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- More detailed guidance has been developed for people who are at higher risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19, including people who are aged 70 and over or have certain existing health conditions. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you are able to live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 [PDF, 609 KB] Allocate another person in your household to pick up supplies. If you live alone, ask friends or family and whānau to drop off anything you need — including food and medicine or other essential supplies — or you can order online and request a home delivery. Make sure any deliveries are left outside your home for you to collect. No one should come inside. If your friends or family deliver supplies to you, ask them to let you know when they have dropped it off, and they can remain nearby to ensure you have received it. --- Section Separator --- Physical activity is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, this can also present a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others. It is very important to stay safe, and to stay physically distant from people outside of your household bubble. Advice on recreation and exercising safely --- Section Separator --- If there is another emergency while you are required to stay at home, follow normal emergency procedures. If you feel an earthquake: drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong: get gone”. If you are advised to evacuate by authorities because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area, keep a 2 metre physical distance from other people who are not in your bubble. --- Section Separator --- If you are unwell, it is vital you stay home and recover. Advice on how to self-isolate if you’re unwell --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 means you must stay at home other than for essential personal movement, such as buying groceries, exercising, seeing the doctor or going to work or school. However, you can now slightly extend your household bubble to include people such as close family members, caregivers or someone who needs care. Keep your extended bubble local, small and exclusive. If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Even in a controlled environment such as a workplace, you need to maintain physical distance. At Alert Level 3, you should still take measures to stay safe and well: regularly disinfect surfaces wash and dry your hands thoroughly and regularly don’t touch your face stay home if you are sick get tested for COVID-19 if you have flu-like symptoms — call your GP or Healthline continue to seek primary medical care. Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 3. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. As soon as you feel unwell, you should immediately self-isolate from others in your household bubble. You can talk to your employer about sick leave if you have any concerns about taking time off. If you have COVID-19 symptoms you should either call your GP straight away, or contact Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You need to limit contact with people outside your household bubble to reduce the risk of transmission. You can have a quick chat with neighbours if you are 2 metres apart, however, you should avoid congregating with other people. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 is still about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your current or slightly extended household bubble presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements. If you are part of a shared household group, for example if you have shared custody of your children and they have been moving between households in the same community, this can continue at Alert Level 3. If you live alone, you can join up with another person living alone, or you can join a small household. You must live in the same neighbourhood, and not interact with anyone else. You cannot join more than one household bubble. If your bubble is unsafe, you can leave immediately to seek help. Talk to a trusted neighbour or friend and then call the police or Women’s Refuge. Support available for family or sexual violence --- Section Separator --- The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 4 means you can only have in-person contact with the people in your household bubble. You cannot have contact with any other people outside your household bubble. If you have a confirmed COVID-19 case or symptoms, are a close contact of a case or have recently travelled overseas, refer to the specific guidance for those groups – you should be self-isolating. You should minimise trips outside your home, and stay at home as much as possible. As long as you're not unwell or have not recently returned from overseas, you can leave your house to: access essential services, like to buy groceries, or go to a bank or pharmacy go for a walk, or exercise and enjoy nature – stick to your local area go to work if you are an essential worker visit or stay at another residence in your household bubble . If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Police will be monitoring people and asking questions of people who are out and about during the Alert Level 4 lockdown to check what they are doing. Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 4. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You cannot meet up with people outside your household bubble. Do not meet up with friends, family and whānau, or allow them to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers Alert Level 4 is about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your household presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements: Children in shared custody arrangements can move between 2 households if they are in the same community. If you live alone, you can join up with another person living alone or a small household. You must live in the same neighbourhood and not interact with anyone else. You cannot join up with more than one household or bubble. Unsafe or life-threatening circumstances require you to move from your household. There is help available if you’re in this situation or concerned for someone else. Support available for family or sexual violence --- Section Separator --- Take common-sense precautions to limit close contact with those you live with. Everybody you live with will also be staying at home, unless they work for an essential service. What to do if somebody you live with becomes unwell while self-isolating --- Section Separator --- The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) --- Section Separator --- Essential workers must stay within their household bubble when they are not at work. Essential workers must maintain a high level of hygiene to keep others in their household safe, including washing their hands, clothes and surfaces regularly, especially after returning from work. Their workplace will also be required to put appropriate safety measures in place to ensure these people are safe at work. Most essential workers will not require personal protective equipment (PPE). As always, anyone who is unwell should not be at work. You must stay at home if: you’re sick with COVID-19, have COVID-19 symptoms or are unwell generally you need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines, due to recent travel or close contact with someone confirmed to have COVID-19 you are caring for dependants who need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines. You may also wish to stay at home if: you, or someone you live with, meets the definition of an at-risk person, including those who are over 70, pregnant, taking certain medications or receiving certain treatment. These people are advised to stay home at Alert Level 2 or higher you do not believe your workplace has adequate health and safety measures to minimise your risk of contracting COVID-19. The Government will make sure essential workers who take leave from work to comply with public health guidance will still receive income. The leave scheme for essential workers helps businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19. Guidance for essential workers and essential businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation and having a place to stay Easy Read [DOCX, 3.6 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay Easy Read [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- How to access healthcare Looking after your mental wellbeing Exercising safely Influenza vaccine Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Family violence and sexual violence prevention At-risk people Funerals and tangihanga
Information for anyone who rents or owns a house or apartment. Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services. --- Section Separator --- Information for anyone who rents or owns a house or apartment. Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services.
Home Individuals and households Life at home Animal welfare --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) NZ Veterinary Association information including how to manage animals when in self-isolation (external link) If you are self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock, can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. International advice is that, as a precautionary measure, people sick with COVID-19 should avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. Where there is COVID-19 in a household, it is recommended that animals are not moved off the property. Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you will need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption, as this is not essential travel. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. There are no formal restrictions on the import of cats and dogs into New Zealand at present. However, international flight availability for the carriage of live animals is severely limited. In addition, it will be difficult for you to pick up your pet from the airport or the quarantine facility unless you live in the area because of travel restrictions. We recommend that you contact a pet transporter to check whether your pet can be transported both to New Zealand and within New Zealand. Any travel plans within New Zealand will need to follow the general travel guidance under current alert levels. If the quarantine facility where your animal is being held is not within your local area, we recommend that you contact a pet transporter to check whether your pet can be transported to your hometown in New Zealand. Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise, and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that is not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, such as at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must stay within your bubble at all times, and maintain 2 metres physical distancing from others not in your bubble. Riding is allowed, but should be done safely and as close to home as possible. You should not use shared facilities. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them as they have care, and visiting them would not be classed as essential work. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure that you maintain hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be one measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. When you your house to attend to your horse, travel in your private vehicle, with other members of your bubble only. Limit visits to what is necessary. Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Further information on farming (external link) Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) Taking animals to the vet during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 1.6 MB] Taking animals to the vet during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 810 KB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Audio description of information about animal welfare is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . --- Section Separator --- If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) NZ Veterinary Association information including how to manage animals when in self-isolation (external link) If you are self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. --- Section Separator --- There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock, can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. International advice is that, as a precautionary measure, people sick with COVID-19 should avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. Where there is COVID-19 in a household, it is recommended that animals are not moved off the property. --- Section Separator --- Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you will need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption, as this is not essential travel. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. There are no formal restrictions on the import of cats and dogs into New Zealand at present. However, international flight availability for the carriage of live animals is severely limited. In addition, it will be difficult for you to pick up your pet from the airport or the quarantine facility unless you live in the area because of travel restrictions. We recommend that you contact a pet transporter to check whether your pet can be transported both to New Zealand and within New Zealand. Any travel plans within New Zealand will need to follow the general travel guidance under current alert levels. If the quarantine facility where your animal is being held is not within your local area, we recommend that you contact a pet transporter to check whether your pet can be transported to your hometown in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise, and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that is not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, such as at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must stay within your bubble at all times, and maintain 2 metres physical distancing from others not in your bubble. Riding is allowed, but should be done safely and as close to home as possible. You should not use shared facilities. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them as they have care, and visiting them would not be classed as essential work. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure that you maintain hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be one measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. When you your house to attend to your horse, travel in your private vehicle, with other members of your bubble only. Limit visits to what is necessary. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Further information on farming (external link) --- Section Separator --- Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Taking animals to the vet during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 1.6 MB] Taking animals to the vet during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 810 KB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Audio description of information about animal welfare is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Renters and homeowners Waste collection Animal welfare
Home Individuals and households Life at home Renters and homeowners --- Section Separator --- It is important that tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness. This will also help families and individuals to: self-isolate stay home maintain physical distancing, and support the public health of all people in New Zealand. As of Thursday 26 March, there is 6-month a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties. If the landlord issued notice to increase the rent before Thursday 26 March, but the increase is not yet in place, the notice has no effect and the rent remains at the original level. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) Landlords cannot end tenancies during the COVID-19 response. This applies for an initial period of three months, from Thursday 26 March 2020, and is Alert Level 4, regardless of when the notice was provided, except for some very limited circumstances. Tenants that have previously received notices to end their tenancies can stay in their rental properties if they wish. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. Mortgage repayment deferrals mean that affected customers who apply to their bank will not make principal and interest payments on their loans for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to provide assistance to affected customers. Key details of this scheme: It’s important to know that interest on these loans will still accrue, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it is a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. If you do move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. Find more Alert Level 3 guidance on the Tenancy Services website (external link) If you are a tenant, you must remain where you stayed on the night of 25 March 2020. You must only move house under extreme circumstances, for example, if you would otherwise have nowhere else to live. If you do have to move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 4 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. You cannot hire a removal service. If you gave notice to your landlord to end your tenancy prior to 25 March 2020, this can be withdrawn. If your landlord gave notice to you to end your tenancy, that notice is no longer valid, unless you both agree otherwise, and your current tenancy agreement can continue. If you had signed a new periodic tenancy agreement before the lockdown, you can give 21 days’ notice to the new landlord. You may have to pay double rent for the period. If you had signed a new fixed-term tenancy agreement, you should try to arrange with your new landlord to cancel this. Landlords are being encouraged to be flexible and accommodating and to support their tenants at this time. However, if you can’t come to an agreement with your landlord, the Tenancy Tribunal can help to resolve any issues. Contact the Tenancy Tribunal (external link) If your home is within an apartment building, you may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for people living in apartments: Stay within your household group and keep a 2 metre distance from other people in your building at all times. If there is hand sanitiser available at the building entrance, use this as you enter and exit the building. Wash your hands frequently, particularly before leaving, and immediately on returning to, your apartment. If you need to use a lift, wait until it is empty and only use the lift with your household group. If you need to touch a frequently used surface in a common area, such as a door handle, stair rail or lift button, use your elbow or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Avoid communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and other gathering areas. Ask for deliveries to be left at your apartment building entrance for your collection. Only members of your household group should come into your apartment or join you when you go out for a walk or take some exercise. If there are vulnerable people, people aged over 70 or self-isolating people in your building, you may wish to collect prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. If so, leave at their apartment door and avoid all physical contact. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise that people should: only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people (for example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf). Any goods should be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. While you can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3 it is recommended that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. Guidance on property settlements from the Ministry of Justice (external link) You can look for properties to buy, but it should be done without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it is a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. Many New Zealanders in the process of buying and selling a house will be affected by the response to COVID-19. For example, the requirements of Alert Level 4 mean that people can’t move into or out of their houses. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. The Ministry of Justice, in consultation with Land Information New Zealand, the New Zealand Law Society | Te Kāhui Ture o Aotearoa and the Real Estate Authority, has prepared guidance for people and their lawyers dealing with property settlements affected by the response to COVID-19. This information should help you to find the best solution for your situation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. Guidance from the Ministry of Justice (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) As with Alert Level 4, tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they should maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like handwashing and wiping surfaces down. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house. Information sheet for more information about staying safe while having essential work done [PDF, 28 KB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [DOCX, 7.1 MB] How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- It is important that tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness. This will also help families and individuals to: self-isolate stay home maintain physical distancing, and support the public health of all people in New Zealand. As of Thursday 26 March, there is 6-month a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties. If the landlord issued notice to increase the rent before Thursday 26 March, but the increase is not yet in place, the notice has no effect and the rent remains at the original level. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) Landlords cannot end tenancies during the COVID-19 response. This applies for an initial period of three months, from Thursday 26 March 2020, and is Alert Level 4, regardless of when the notice was provided, except for some very limited circumstances. Tenants that have previously received notices to end their tenancies can stay in their rental properties if they wish. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. Mortgage repayment deferrals mean that affected customers who apply to their bank will not make principal and interest payments on their loans for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to provide assistance to affected customers. Key details of this scheme: It’s important to know that interest on these loans will still accrue, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it is a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. If you do move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. Find more Alert Level 3 guidance on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a tenant, you must remain where you stayed on the night of 25 March 2020. You must only move house under extreme circumstances, for example, if you would otherwise have nowhere else to live. If you do have to move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 4 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. You cannot hire a removal service. If you gave notice to your landlord to end your tenancy prior to 25 March 2020, this can be withdrawn. If your landlord gave notice to you to end your tenancy, that notice is no longer valid, unless you both agree otherwise, and your current tenancy agreement can continue. If you had signed a new periodic tenancy agreement before the lockdown, you can give 21 days’ notice to the new landlord. You may have to pay double rent for the period. If you had signed a new fixed-term tenancy agreement, you should try to arrange with your new landlord to cancel this. Landlords are being encouraged to be flexible and accommodating and to support their tenants at this time. However, if you can’t come to an agreement with your landlord, the Tenancy Tribunal can help to resolve any issues. Contact the Tenancy Tribunal (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your home is within an apartment building, you may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for people living in apartments: Stay within your household group and keep a 2 metre distance from other people in your building at all times. If there is hand sanitiser available at the building entrance, use this as you enter and exit the building. Wash your hands frequently, particularly before leaving, and immediately on returning to, your apartment. If you need to use a lift, wait until it is empty and only use the lift with your household group. If you need to touch a frequently used surface in a common area, such as a door handle, stair rail or lift button, use your elbow or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Avoid communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and other gathering areas. Ask for deliveries to be left at your apartment building entrance for your collection. Only members of your household group should come into your apartment or join you when you go out for a walk or take some exercise. If there are vulnerable people, people aged over 70 or self-isolating people in your building, you may wish to collect prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. If so, leave at their apartment door and avoid all physical contact. --- Section Separator --- People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise that people should: only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people (for example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf). Any goods should be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. --- Section Separator --- While you can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3 it is recommended that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. Guidance on property settlements from the Ministry of Justice (external link) You can look for properties to buy, but it should be done without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it is a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. --- Section Separator --- Many New Zealanders in the process of buying and selling a house will be affected by the response to COVID-19. For example, the requirements of Alert Level 4 mean that people can’t move into or out of their houses. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. The Ministry of Justice, in consultation with Land Information New Zealand, the New Zealand Law Society | Te Kāhui Ture o Aotearoa and the Real Estate Authority, has prepared guidance for people and their lawyers dealing with property settlements affected by the response to COVID-19. This information should help you to find the best solution for your situation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. Guidance from the Ministry of Justice (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) As with Alert Level 4, tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they should maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like handwashing and wiping surfaces down. --- Section Separator --- You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house. Information sheet for more information about staying safe while having essential work done [PDF, 28 KB] --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [DOCX, 7.1 MB] How Kāinga Ora is working with customers during COVID-19 – 28 April 2020 update [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Renters and homeowners Waste collection Animal welfare
Home Individuals and households Life at home Waste collection --- Section Separator --- Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Please check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Helpful tips and detailed information on household rubbish and recycling during the COVID-19 response and recovery (external link) You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, you should still put all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Please do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. Waste handling and kerbside collection workers are providing an essential service. They will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for essential workers (external link) Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open for essential services use only. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Please check your local council website for more information before visiting. Please check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you are free to undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home during the Alert Level 4 period, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 4 period has ended. --- Section Separator --- Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Please check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Helpful tips and detailed information on household rubbish and recycling during the COVID-19 response and recovery (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, you should still put all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- Please do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. --- Section Separator --- Waste handling and kerbside collection workers are providing an essential service. They will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for essential workers (external link) --- Section Separator --- Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open for essential services use only. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Please check your local council website for more information before visiting. Please check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you are free to undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home during the Alert Level 4 period, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 4 period has ended. --- Section Separator --- Renters and homeowners Waste collection Animal welfare
Home Individuals and households In an emergency --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you and aim to avoid contact with people who aren’t in your bubble. Stay 2 metres away from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area, keep a 2 metre physical distance from other people who are not in your bubble. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [DOCX, 1.4 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you and aim to avoid contact with people who aren’t in your bubble. Stay 2 metres away from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area, keep a 2 metre physical distance from other people who are not in your bubble. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [DOCX, 1.4 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Health and wellbeing Financial support Travel Life at home Shopping Misinformation and scams Parents, caregivers, and whānau In an emergency
Home Individuals and households Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting the spread of COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 Investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 Phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 Scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices, however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Hand sanitiser is good for cleaning your hands if soap and water are not available. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. There have been reports of sanitisers being sold that have less than 60% alcohol. These are not as effective. How to wash your hands properly --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting the spread of COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 Investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 Phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 Scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices, however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Hand sanitiser is good for cleaning your hands if soap and water are not available. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. There have been reports of sanitisers being sold that have less than 60% alcohol. These are not as effective. How to wash your hands properly --- Section Separator --- Health and wellbeing Financial support Travel Life at home Shopping Misinformation and scams Parents, caregivers, and whānau In an emergency
Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online. --- Section Separator --- Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online.
Home Individuals and households Parents, caregivers, and whānau Shared custody and childcare --- Section Separator --- If you’re making your own childcare arrangements, you can use your existing networks for in-home care. For example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: The person providing care for your children essentially becomes an extended part of your household bubble. This group must remain the same for the whole Alert Level 3 period. The carer should not care for children from other households/families, other than their own, over the same period. If a child or carer becomes unwell, they must stay at home. Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Making your own arrangements for childcare is the preferred approach. We encourage you to use your existing networks for in-home care, for example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: The person providing care for your children essentially becomes an extension of your self-isolating household group. This group must remain the same for the whole Alert Level 4 period. The carer should not care for children from other households/families, other than their own, over the same period. If a child or carer becomes unwell, they must stay at home. If you’re unable to access childcare to perform your essential service, the government has agreed that it will fund other licensed childcare providers to provide in-home care to the children aged 0 to 14 of essential workers. Examples of licensed childcare providers are PORSE, OSCAR and Barnados. They would be subject to the same Public Health rules as set out above. For the purposes of providing care to children of essential workers, the in-home carer will be classified as an essential worker. This type of care will continue to be funded until 8 May. After this date, parents and caregivers will need to make their own arrangements. List of all available providers (external link) Some of the key providers include: Barnados website (external link) Email: covid19enquiries@barnardos.org.nz Phone: 0800 BARNARDOS ( 0800 227 627 ) Email: info@hgk.co.nz Phone: 0508 44 54 37 PORSE website (external link) Phone: 0800 023 456 At Alert Level 3, children may move between households under a shared custody arrangement. Household bubbles can be extended slightly, but must remain exclusive. Children can move between different regions. However, only travel where you need to. Take a copy of your court order or parenting arrangement with you, to help explain your travel. Use private vehicles to transport children where possible. You can use public transport if you don't have another option. Guidance for managing shared parenting during COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) The best thing everyone can do to stop the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home . This includes parents with shared custody arrangements and their children. The Principal Family Court Judge has released guidance for parents with shared custody arrangements. Generally, children whose parents live within an hour’s drive of each other can continue to go between 2 homes if you have a shared bubble arrangement. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most. An arrangement with more than 2 households would risk spreading COVID-19. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. If parents are more than an hour’s drive away, then the children should stay in one home. Children should also stay in one home if they're feeling unwell, or if someone in their home is unwell or has been overseas in the last 14 days. This will protect the health of parents, caregivers and children. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are caring for a child who is immunocompromised there is more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re making your own childcare arrangements, you can use your existing networks for in-home care. For example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: The person providing care for your children essentially becomes an extended part of your household bubble. This group must remain the same for the whole Alert Level 3 period. The carer should not care for children from other households/families, other than their own, over the same period. If a child or carer becomes unwell, they must stay at home. --- Section Separator --- Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Making your own arrangements for childcare is the preferred approach. We encourage you to use your existing networks for in-home care, for example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: The person providing care for your children essentially becomes an extension of your self-isolating household group. This group must remain the same for the whole Alert Level 4 period. The carer should not care for children from other households/families, other than their own, over the same period. If a child or carer becomes unwell, they must stay at home. If you’re unable to access childcare to perform your essential service, the government has agreed that it will fund other licensed childcare providers to provide in-home care to the children aged 0 to 14 of essential workers. Examples of licensed childcare providers are PORSE, OSCAR and Barnados. They would be subject to the same Public Health rules as set out above. For the purposes of providing care to children of essential workers, the in-home carer will be classified as an essential worker. This type of care will continue to be funded until 8 May. After this date, parents and caregivers will need to make their own arrangements. List of all available providers (external link) Some of the key providers include: Barnados website (external link) Email: covid19enquiries@barnardos.org.nz Phone: 0800 BARNARDOS ( 0800 227 627 ) Email: info@hgk.co.nz Phone: 0508 44 54 37 PORSE website (external link) Phone: 0800 023 456 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, children may move between households under a shared custody arrangement. Household bubbles can be extended slightly, but must remain exclusive. Children can move between different regions. However, only travel where you need to. Take a copy of your court order or parenting arrangement with you, to help explain your travel. Use private vehicles to transport children where possible. You can use public transport if you don't have another option. Guidance for managing shared parenting during COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) --- Section Separator --- The best thing everyone can do to stop the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home . This includes parents with shared custody arrangements and their children. The Principal Family Court Judge has released guidance for parents with shared custody arrangements. Generally, children whose parents live within an hour’s drive of each other can continue to go between 2 homes if you have a shared bubble arrangement. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most. An arrangement with more than 2 households would risk spreading COVID-19. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. If parents are more than an hour’s drive away, then the children should stay in one home. Children should also stay in one home if they're feeling unwell, or if someone in their home is unwell or has been overseas in the last 14 days. This will protect the health of parents, caregivers and children. --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are caring for a child who is immunocompromised there is more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to keep children safe and reassured Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety
Home Individuals and households Parents, caregivers, and whānau Education --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for Early Learning/Education Centres and schools to open for children up to and including year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in years 11–13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, students should remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Schools and Early Learning/Education Centres will contact parents as they work through their plans for re-opening. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. Children, young people and staff who are at greater risk should stay at home. Any child, young person or staff member who is sick should remain at home. Some Schools and Early Learning Services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Alert Level 3 FAQs for Schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Educational providers, including all schools, will be closed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Schools and students have been supported with distance learning resources since Term 2 began on 15 April. Schools are providing information about what this means directly to parents. Term 2 began by distance on 15 April. Every learner in New Zealand has at least one way to access education, even if they do not have a device or an internet connection at home. The Ministry of Education is working to increase the number of students who have internet access and devices. Hard copy learning resources are available to students without internet access. Two television channels are broadcasting free to air content for children and students who find it tricky to learn online, or who don’t have hard pack learning resources. Home Learning/Papa Kāinga TV is available for children and young people aged 0 to 15. It airs 9am to 3pm on schooldays across channels TVNZ 2+1, TVNZ on Demand, and Sky Channel 502. Content includes play, literacy, mathematics, science, te reo Māori, physical education and wellbeing. Māori Television content focuses on learning at home for tamariki, rangatahi and whānau, aged from 0 to 18. It is tailored to specific age groups during the day, with learning content tamariki can do on their own, with siblings or as a whānau. Learning from home (external link) Ki to Ao Mārama (external link) Ministry of Education (external link) If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are caring for a child who is immunocompromised there is more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) Audio description about schools and early childhood is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for Early Learning/Education Centres and schools to open for children up to and including year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in years 11–13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, students should remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Schools and Early Learning/Education Centres will contact parents as they work through their plans for re-opening. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. Children, young people and staff who are at greater risk should stay at home. Any child, young person or staff member who is sick should remain at home. Some Schools and Early Learning Services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Alert Level 3 FAQs for Schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) --- Section Separator --- Educational providers, including all schools, will be closed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Schools and students have been supported with distance learning resources since Term 2 began on 15 April. Schools are providing information about what this means directly to parents. Term 2 began by distance on 15 April. Every learner in New Zealand has at least one way to access education, even if they do not have a device or an internet connection at home. The Ministry of Education is working to increase the number of students who have internet access and devices. Hard copy learning resources are available to students without internet access. Two television channels are broadcasting free to air content for children and students who find it tricky to learn online, or who don’t have hard pack learning resources. Home Learning/Papa Kāinga TV is available for children and young people aged 0 to 15. It airs 9am to 3pm on schooldays across channels TVNZ 2+1, TVNZ on Demand, and Sky Channel 502. Content includes play, literacy, mathematics, science, te reo Māori, physical education and wellbeing. Māori Television content focuses on learning at home for tamariki, rangatahi and whānau, aged from 0 to 18. It is tailored to specific age groups during the day, with learning content tamariki can do on their own, with siblings or as a whānau. Learning from home (external link) Ki to Ao Mārama (external link) Ministry of Education (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are caring for a child who is immunocompromised there is more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- Audio description about schools and early childhood is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to keep children safe and reassured Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety
Home Individuals and households Parents, caregivers, and whānau How to keep children safe and reassured --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you are able to stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. Children need factual, age-appropriate information about COVID-19 so that they can also feel informed and in control. They need to know how they can play a part in avoiding infection and slowing the spread of the virus. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. If no one in your family has COVID-19, been in close contact with anyone with COVID-19 or are immune-compromised, emphasise to your children that they and your family are fine. Evidence shows children are less susceptible to COVID-19. Parents and caregivers should follow standard guidelines to prevent the virus spreading by: covering coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues or elbow washing hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and drying them thoroughly: before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose after caring for sick people. before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose after caring for sick people. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Dr Michelle Dickinson has some great videos for kids about COVID-19 (external link) During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Now is a good time to learn about keeping your family safe online. You might consider making an online safety plan, or use tools such as parental controls to manage what your children can access. Further guidance on internet safety, including resources for parents If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are caring for a child who is immunocompromised there is more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) At Alert Level 3, children may move between households under a shared custody arrangement. Household bubbles can be extended slightly, but must remain exclusive. Children can move between different regions. However, only travel where you need to. Take a copy of your court order or parenting arrangement with you, to help explain your travel. Use private vehicles to transport children where possible. You can use public transport if you don't have another option. Guidance for managing shared parenting during COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) The best thing everyone can do to stop the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home . This includes parents with shared custody arrangements and their children. The Principal Family Court Judge has released guidance for parents with shared custody arrangements. Generally, children whose parents live within an hour’s drive of each other can continue to go between 2 homes if you have a shared bubble arrangement. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most. An arrangement with more than 2 households would risk spreading COVID-19. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. If parents are more than an hour’s drive away, then the children should stay in one home. Children should also stay in one home if they're feeling unwell, or if someone in their home is unwell or has been overseas in the last 14 days. This will protect the health of parents, caregivers and children. --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you are able to stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. Children need factual, age-appropriate information about COVID-19 so that they can also feel informed and in control. They need to know how they can play a part in avoiding infection and slowing the spread of the virus. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. --- Section Separator --- If no one in your family has COVID-19, been in close contact with anyone with COVID-19 or are immune-compromised, emphasise to your children that they and your family are fine. Evidence shows children are less susceptible to COVID-19. Parents and caregivers should follow standard guidelines to prevent the virus spreading by: covering coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues or elbow washing hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and drying them thoroughly: before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose after caring for sick people. before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose after caring for sick people. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Dr Michelle Dickinson has some great videos for kids about COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Now is a good time to learn about keeping your family safe online. You might consider making an online safety plan, or use tools such as parental controls to manage what your children can access. Further guidance on internet safety, including resources for parents --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are caring for a child who is immunocompromised there is more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, children may move between households under a shared custody arrangement. Household bubbles can be extended slightly, but must remain exclusive. Children can move between different regions. However, only travel where you need to. Take a copy of your court order or parenting arrangement with you, to help explain your travel. Use private vehicles to transport children where possible. You can use public transport if you don't have another option. Guidance for managing shared parenting during COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) --- Section Separator --- The best thing everyone can do to stop the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home . This includes parents with shared custody arrangements and their children. The Principal Family Court Judge has released guidance for parents with shared custody arrangements. Generally, children whose parents live within an hour’s drive of each other can continue to go between 2 homes if you have a shared bubble arrangement. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most. An arrangement with more than 2 households would risk spreading COVID-19. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. If parents are more than an hour’s drive away, then the children should stay in one home. Children should also stay in one home if they're feeling unwell, or if someone in their home is unwell or has been overseas in the last 14 days. This will protect the health of parents, caregivers and children. --- Section Separator --- How to keep children safe and reassured Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety
Home Individuals and households Parents, caregivers, and whānau Online safety --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time, and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the Police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time, and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) --- Section Separator --- We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the Police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to keep children safe and reassured Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety
Advice about safely shopping for your groceries. Advice for accessing essential goods and services like food shopping, healthcare, waste collection, and vets. What you can do if you can't get the essential supplies you need. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. --- Section Separator --- Advice about safely shopping for your groceries. Advice for accessing essential goods and services like food shopping, healthcare, waste collection, and vets. What you can do if you can't get the essential supplies you need. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through.
Home Individuals and households Shopping Accessing essential goods and services --- Section Separator --- You will always be able to access essential services like food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste removal, internet and financial support. Supermarkets and dairies are essential and will be open at all Alert Levels. If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Doctors, hospitals, and pharmacies will be open but if you need to see them, remember to phone first. Guidance for accessing healthcare If you need help, you can access a wide range of financial support systems, including financial hardship assistance through Work and Income, protection for renters and tenants, and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available Collecting waste is an essential service and will continue throughout the COVID-19 response period. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste, but check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working at all Alert Levels. However, to stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Information about funerals and tangihanga Veterinary services are essential. If you are self-isolating, you must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) Please stay at home as much as you can. Any unnecessary travel could spread COVID-19. Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example, to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to access essential services. Please read our guidance for leaving your house. Guidance for leaving your house If you need help accessing the things you need during self-isolation, like food, medicine, or transport to get essential goods, your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group can assist. Get support to access essential services Alert Level 3 shopping and services Easy Read [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Alert Level 3 Shopping and services Easy Read [PDF, 2.2 MB] What other services are available to me? (external link) --- Section Separator --- You will always be able to access essential services like food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste removal, internet and financial support. --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets and dairies are essential and will be open at all Alert Levels. If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Doctors, hospitals, and pharmacies will be open but if you need to see them, remember to phone first. Guidance for accessing healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need help, you can access a wide range of financial support systems, including financial hardship assistance through Work and Income, protection for renters and tenants, and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- Collecting waste is an essential service and will continue throughout the COVID-19 response period. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste, but check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working at all Alert Levels. However, to stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Information about funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- Veterinary services are essential. If you are self-isolating, you must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) --- Section Separator --- Please stay at home as much as you can. Any unnecessary travel could spread COVID-19. Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example, to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to access essential services. Please read our guidance for leaving your house. Guidance for leaving your house --- Section Separator --- If you need help accessing the things you need during self-isolation, like food, medicine, or transport to get essential goods, your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group can assist. Get support to access essential services --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 shopping and services Easy Read [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Alert Level 3 Shopping and services Easy Read [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- What other services are available to me? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing essential goods and services If you can't get essential supplies Getting takeaways safely
Home Individuals and households Shopping Getting takeaways safely --- Section Separator --- If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You will not be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. Do not go out to get takeaways if you are sick with cold and flu-like symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. Food outlets should not be accepting orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it is ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only one person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method — like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have been able to thoroughly wash your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers such as personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after use. Don’t wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you are waiting in a queue. Be kind to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You will not be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. Do not go out to get takeaways if you are sick with cold and flu-like symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. Food outlets should not be accepting orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it is ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only one person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method — like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have been able to thoroughly wash your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers such as personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after use. Don’t wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you are waiting in a queue. Be kind to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing essential goods and services If you can't get essential supplies Getting takeaways safely
Home Individuals and households Shopping If you can't get essential supplies --- Section Separator --- You can get financial support from the Ministry for Social Development. This works well if you have your own way of getting the goods you need. Find out more about financial support If you can't get food, medicine and other essentials, you may be able to get help from community providers or support networks like whānau, friends, iwi and neighbours. You may need extra help to access the things you need during self-isolation like: food medicines transport to get essential goods. If you find yourself in this situation help is available from your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. Food banks and food rescue organisations are considered an essential service. Food banks must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and cannot sell or provide cooked food. Your Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group will be working with food banks and other organisations to make sure that those in need are able to access food and other essential items. Information for food banks, food rescue and community food services (external link) The Student Volunteer Army is offering a contactless food ordering and delivery service for people aged over 65, those who are medically vulnerable and families of healthcare workers or healthcare workers themselves. Request support from the Student Volunteer Army (external link) Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group operates 7 days a week from 9am to 5pm. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. The phone number for your local CDEM group is below. Northland – 0800 790 791 Auckland – 0800 222 296 Waikato – 0800 800 405 Bay of Plenty – 0800 884 222 Hawke’s Bay – 0800 422 923 Tairāwhiti – 0800 653 800 Taranaki – 0800 900 077 Manawatū-Whanganui – 0800 725 678 Wellington – 0800 141 967 Marlborough – 03 520 7400 or welfare@marlboroughcdem.co.nz Nelson – 0800 50 50 75 Canterbury – 0800 24 24 11 West Coast – 03 900 9329 Otago – 0800 322 4000 Southland – 0800 890 127 or covid19@cdsouthland.nz Chatham Islands – 03 305 0033 ex 715 List updated 1 April 2020. Call 111 for Fire and Emergency, Police or Ambulance. 1737 (1737 Helpline) 0800 111 757 (Depression Helpline) 0800 787 797 (Alcohol Drug Helpline) Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [DOCX, 1.4 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [PDF, 1.3 MB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] Information if you need help accessing food and other things you need to live is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can get financial support from the Ministry for Social Development. This works well if you have your own way of getting the goods you need. Find out more about financial support --- Section Separator --- If you can't get food, medicine and other essentials, you may be able to get help from community providers or support networks like whānau, friends, iwi and neighbours. You may need extra help to access the things you need during self-isolation like: food medicines transport to get essential goods. If you find yourself in this situation help is available from your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. Food banks and food rescue organisations are considered an essential service. Food banks must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and cannot sell or provide cooked food. Your Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group will be working with food banks and other organisations to make sure that those in need are able to access food and other essential items. Information for food banks, food rescue and community food services (external link) The Student Volunteer Army is offering a contactless food ordering and delivery service for people aged over 65, those who are medically vulnerable and families of healthcare workers or healthcare workers themselves. Request support from the Student Volunteer Army (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group operates 7 days a week from 9am to 5pm. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. The phone number for your local CDEM group is below. Northland – 0800 790 791 Auckland – 0800 222 296 Waikato – 0800 800 405 Bay of Plenty – 0800 884 222 Hawke’s Bay – 0800 422 923 Tairāwhiti – 0800 653 800 Taranaki – 0800 900 077 Manawatū-Whanganui – 0800 725 678 Wellington – 0800 141 967 Marlborough – 03 520 7400 or welfare@marlboroughcdem.co.nz Nelson – 0800 50 50 75 Canterbury – 0800 24 24 11 West Coast – 03 900 9329 Otago – 0800 322 4000 Southland – 0800 890 127 or covid19@cdsouthland.nz Chatham Islands – 03 305 0033 ex 715 List updated 1 April 2020. --- Section Separator --- Call 111 for Fire and Emergency, Police or Ambulance. 1737 (1737 Helpline) 0800 111 757 (Depression Helpline) 0800 787 797 (Alcohol Drug Helpline) --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [DOCX, 1.4 MB] Civil Defence Emergency Management — help with getting the things you need Easy Read [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information if you need help accessing food and other things you need to live is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing essential goods and services If you can't get essential supplies Getting takeaways safely
Home Individuals and households Shopping Shopping safely --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets will remain open and continue to provide essential supplies during Alert Level 4. Keep trips to a minimum. Do not go in to buy only one or two non-essential items, like a chocolate bar or soft drink. Be kind to essential workers and other people in the supermarket. Do not shop if you are sick. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick up essential supplies. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell Wash your hands before and after you shop. Bring clean reusable shopping bags. If the business allows you to bring your own food containers, make sure it is clean and wipe it down when you get home. Get safety advice for using reusable food containers (external link) Send only one person from your household. You may need to take young children with you if there is no carer available. Come prepared with a list so you can get in and out as quickly as possible. Shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers – helping you keep 2 metres away from others. If you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down the trolley or basket handles. Only touch what you intend to buy. If you can, use a contactless payment method – like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have been able to thoroughly wash your hands. Bag groceries away from others if you can. Wash your hands thoroughly when you get home. For any fresh produce it is always a good idea to rinse them off with clean water before consuming, although we do not recommend using soap, disinfectant or detergent as this could affect the taste and may cause stomach upsets. Wipe down packaged goods with a soapy clean towel, then dry. Wipe down or wash your reusable shopping bags. If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. This will leave delivery slots free for the people who need them most. It is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and essential supplies. However, they should leave these at the door and not come inside. Food and shopping (external link) Alert Level 3 shopping and services Easy Read [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Alert Level 3 Shopping and services Easy Read [PDF, 2.2 MB] Food and shopping Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Food and shopping Large Print [PDF, 553 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets will remain open and continue to provide essential supplies during Alert Level 4. Keep trips to a minimum. Do not go in to buy only one or two non-essential items, like a chocolate bar or soft drink. Be kind to essential workers and other people in the supermarket. Do not shop if you are sick. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick up essential supplies. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands before and after you shop. Bring clean reusable shopping bags. If the business allows you to bring your own food containers, make sure it is clean and wipe it down when you get home. Get safety advice for using reusable food containers (external link) Send only one person from your household. You may need to take young children with you if there is no carer available. Come prepared with a list so you can get in and out as quickly as possible. Shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers – helping you keep 2 metres away from others. If you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down the trolley or basket handles. Only touch what you intend to buy. If you can, use a contactless payment method – like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have been able to thoroughly wash your hands. Bag groceries away from others if you can. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands thoroughly when you get home. For any fresh produce it is always a good idea to rinse them off with clean water before consuming, although we do not recommend using soap, disinfectant or detergent as this could affect the taste and may cause stomach upsets. Wipe down packaged goods with a soapy clean towel, then dry. Wipe down or wash your reusable shopping bags. --- Section Separator --- If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. This will leave delivery slots free for the people who need them most. It is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and essential supplies. However, they should leave these at the door and not come inside. --- Section Separator --- Food and shopping (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 shopping and services Easy Read [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Alert Level 3 Shopping and services Easy Read [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Food and shopping Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Food and shopping Large Print [PDF, 553 KB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing essential goods and services If you can't get essential supplies Getting takeaways safely
Find information about when you can leave your house. Advice if you are arriving back in New Zealand. Advice for travelling within New Zealand. Advice if you are planning international travel. Advice for New Zealanders who are outside New Zealand. Travelling in New Zealand on public transport, in cars and if you are walking, cycling or scootering. Advice for travelling in taxis or ride-sharing. Cruise ships are currently banned from coming into New Zealand. You should avoid all non-essential travel including cruise ships. Advice for visa holders. --- Section Separator --- Find information about when you can leave your house. Advice if you are arriving back in New Zealand. Advice for travelling within New Zealand. Advice if you are planning international travel. Advice for New Zealanders who are outside New Zealand. Travelling in New Zealand on public transport, in cars and if you are walking, cycling or scootering. Advice for travelling in taxis or ride-sharing. Cruise ships are currently banned from coming into New Zealand. You should avoid all non-essential travel including cruise ships. Advice for visa holders.
Home Individuals and households Travel Arriving back in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- All travellers entering New Zealand at any sea or airport, from 10 April 2020 are required to: go into ‘managed isolation’ in a government-provided facility (hotel), or if you have COVID-19 symptoms, go into a quarantine facility (separate hotel). You will need to stay there for at least 14 days. This will prevent any further unmanaged COVID-19 infection coming into New Zealand. You can’t self-isolate at home, or take a domestic flight before the 14-day period is completed. You will be met at the port by government officials who will explain the requirements and answer any questions. You will also be screened for COVID-19 symptoms. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or are waiting for COVID-19 test results, you will be placed in a quarantine facility (separate hotel). Otherwise, you will be placed in a managed isolation facility (hotel). You will have regular contact with the government repatriation team who will coordinate all movement and welfare support. The All-of-Government Response is paying for the cost of the accommodation and meals for those requiring managed isolation or quarantine. While in managed isolation, you will stay in a hotel and will have little contact with the outside world. Your hotel will provide all your meals and you can go on short walks for fresh air. You won’t be able to go shopping or visit an ATM, so you’ll need to bring everything you need for daily life with you: Clothes — make sure you and your family have enough for a week. Toiletries, for example, toothpaste and toothbrush, shaving equipment, sanitary products, medicines and contacts lenses and solution. Electronics, for example, mobile devices, laptops, tablets, e-readers and their chargers, headphones and electrical converters and adaptors. Money and documents, for example, cash, credit cards, passport and any necessary documents. Items for young children, for example, infant formula, disposable nappies and toys and books. The rooms will have TV and WiFi, but the space will not be large. It is a good idea to think about how your family will get along together when living in a small space. You can drink alcohol in managed isolation, just remember to drink in moderation. All meals are provided in managed isolation, so there is no need to bring additional food with you. If you want to bring food in with you: New Zealand’s standard biosecurity screening requirements remain in place — you cannot bring illegal or perishable food items and cooking ingredients. For example fruit, vegetables, eggs and honey into New Zealand. You can bring small quantities of non-perishable food. For example sweets, biscuits, into New Zealand to take with you. Make sure you pack these in your carry-on luggage so they can be easily checked by border staff when you arrive. Avoid bringing Umu boxes with you as they require extra screening at the border, and you may not be allowed to take them with you into managed isolation. Declare any food items on your arrivals card and tell border staff. If you don’t do this you could be delayed, or you could be fined up to $400. If you bring these items into New Zealand, your arrival processing and allocation into a managed isolation facility will be delayed. This delay is because checking cabin baggage requires additional screening and interaction with border staff. A very small number of people will be eligible for exemption from managed isolation, such as medical transfers, and those with serious medical conditions that cannot be managed in the accommodation provided. Legal guardians can apply to join unaccompanied minors in managed facilities. If an exemption is granted, you must still complete your 14-day self-isolation at home. If you are symptomatic on arrival you will still be placed in quarantine. If you are already in managed isolation and want to apply for an exemption due to a serious and unmanageable medical condition please inform the facility management team at your hotel, who will be able to assist you to complete the application form. If you are due to fly to New Zealand you must apply for an exemption before you travel. If you do not hold an exemption before you fly you will be placed in managed isolation. To apply, complete the application form and email it to MI_Exemptions@health.govt.nz with the subject "Application for exemption from managed isolation". Application form for exemption from managed self-isolation [PDF, 117 KB] The information you are required to provide includes: the full name of all those applying for exemption as detailed on passport used to enter New Zealand date of birth National Health Index (NHI) number if known the flight number and date of arrival in New Zealand if not yet booked, provide planned dates a statement setting out your rationale for requesting an exemption, along with any supporting evidence your proposed self-isolation plan including address, and your proposed travel plan to the self-isolation location, for example, private car. Exemptions are only being granted in extremely limited circumstances to protect New Zealanders and the investment that we are making in eliminating COVID-19. To be eligible for an exemption you must: be assessed as not needing to go into quarantine at the border, and fit into one of the exemption categories, and have a suitable self-isolation plan. The exemption categories are: a minor who is travelling alone — this exemption allows a parent or caregiver to join the minor in managed isolation, not for the minor to leave self-isolation individuals arriving as medical transfers — if being transferred to hospital, a letter from the DHB verifying they will enable self-isolation in hospital or discharged within 14 days, they will be required to complete the time in a managed isolation facility. individuals with physical or other needs that cannot be appropriately accommodated at the managed facilities — applications in this category need to be supported with clinical evidence from a registered medical practitioner. Needs considered are the needs of the individual arriving in New Zealand, not of others already in New Zealand workers critical to the COVID-19 response required to undertake tasks during the 14 days isolation — applications in this category need to be supported by a letter from the relevant government department, essential service employers or lifeline utility. If you fit into one of the exemption categories you must also have an acceptable self-isolation plan. You must have a suitable private residence to complete your self-isolation. You must not self-isolate with at-risk people such as those over 70, those with medical conditions, or pregnant women. Critical workers must also provide a health and safety plan on how they will maintain self-isolation while undertaking their relevant tasks, and confirm that they will be able to access necessities such as food while remaining in self-isolation. You must drive directly to your self-isolation location. You must not use rental cars, lease cars or public transport such as taxis, Uber, buses, trains, ferries, or domestic flights. Legal guardians travelling to managed facilities are permitted to use any form of transport, using their travel exemption letter. Critical workers are permitted to use rental cars, if using an approved provider. You must use a private car to take you directly to this self-isolation location. This can be either: a self-drive private car already parked at the airport a private car driven by someone living at their intended self-isolation location, for example someone within their bubble at the same address. Only the driver should travel to the airport to pick them up — no other passengers. You must agree to follow proper hygiene and physical distancing while travelling to your self-isolation location: While moving through the airport and then driving home, please observe best hygiene practices, including covering your coughs and sneezes, washing your hands / using hand sanitiser; and avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands. You must have no face-to-face contact closer than 2 metres with anybody other than the person driving your private car. If you applied for an exemption and it was declined, you can request that your application be reconsidered. To have your application reconsidered, email MI_Exemptions@health.govt.nz and provide the details of your original application with any requested additional information. If you arrived before 10 April and went into isolation or quarantine away from your home, you need a plan for how you will travel home when you are allowed to leave. You must pass a health screen before you can leave managed isolation or quarantine. If you are in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, the facility management team in your location will arrange any necessary onward travel for you. Please discuss this with them. If you are in self-isolation away from your home, for example in a hotel, you will need to apply for a travel exemption to continue your onward travel when your 14-day isolation period is complete. To apply for a travel exemption you must provide proof that your onward domestic travel was interrupted by Alert Level 4 restrictions. For example, provide an expired domestic ticket. To apply, email travel@ncmc.govt.nz with the subject "Application for domestic travel after completing 14-day isolation". Your email must include: full name of all those applying for exemption as detailed on passport used to enter New Zealand flight number and date of arrival in New Zealand including evidence/proof of international travel current self-isolation address evidence that you have been at that address for the required 14-day isolation period. For example an accommodation receipt or letter from the provider including the email address and phone number of the provider. proposed address for Alert Level 3 such as a home address whether you require transport to your proposed address. If you have your own transport, provide details, for example, a private car's licence plate number preferred date of move which must be at least 14 days after arrival any evidence that may support the case. Do not start your travel until you have received your exemption letter – public transport providers will not permit travel without this. If you require transport, such as a domestic flight, we will contact you to discuss these arrangements. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. For advice, support and general enquiries please call 0800 22 66 57 , 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, weekends and public holidays. Find COVID-19 information from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Or call Immigration New Zealand on 0508 225 288 or +64 9 952 1679 if you’re outside New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers entering New Zealand at any sea or airport, from 10 April 2020 are required to: go into ‘managed isolation’ in a government-provided facility (hotel), or if you have COVID-19 symptoms, go into a quarantine facility (separate hotel). You will need to stay there for at least 14 days. This will prevent any further unmanaged COVID-19 infection coming into New Zealand. You can’t self-isolate at home, or take a domestic flight before the 14-day period is completed. You will be met at the port by government officials who will explain the requirements and answer any questions. You will also be screened for COVID-19 symptoms. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or are waiting for COVID-19 test results, you will be placed in a quarantine facility (separate hotel). Otherwise, you will be placed in a managed isolation facility (hotel). You will have regular contact with the government repatriation team who will coordinate all movement and welfare support. The All-of-Government Response is paying for the cost of the accommodation and meals for those requiring managed isolation or quarantine. While in managed isolation, you will stay in a hotel and will have little contact with the outside world. Your hotel will provide all your meals and you can go on short walks for fresh air. You won’t be able to go shopping or visit an ATM, so you’ll need to bring everything you need for daily life with you: Clothes — make sure you and your family have enough for a week. Toiletries, for example, toothpaste and toothbrush, shaving equipment, sanitary products, medicines and contacts lenses and solution. Electronics, for example, mobile devices, laptops, tablets, e-readers and their chargers, headphones and electrical converters and adaptors. Money and documents, for example, cash, credit cards, passport and any necessary documents. Items for young children, for example, infant formula, disposable nappies and toys and books. The rooms will have TV and WiFi, but the space will not be large. It is a good idea to think about how your family will get along together when living in a small space. You can drink alcohol in managed isolation, just remember to drink in moderation. All meals are provided in managed isolation, so there is no need to bring additional food with you. If you want to bring food in with you: New Zealand’s standard biosecurity screening requirements remain in place — you cannot bring illegal or perishable food items and cooking ingredients. For example fruit, vegetables, eggs and honey into New Zealand. You can bring small quantities of non-perishable food. For example sweets, biscuits, into New Zealand to take with you. Make sure you pack these in your carry-on luggage so they can be easily checked by border staff when you arrive. Avoid bringing Umu boxes with you as they require extra screening at the border, and you may not be allowed to take them with you into managed isolation. Declare any food items on your arrivals card and tell border staff. If you don’t do this you could be delayed, or you could be fined up to $400. If you bring these items into New Zealand, your arrival processing and allocation into a managed isolation facility will be delayed. This delay is because checking cabin baggage requires additional screening and interaction with border staff. A very small number of people will be eligible for exemption from managed isolation, such as medical transfers, and those with serious medical conditions that cannot be managed in the accommodation provided. Legal guardians can apply to join unaccompanied minors in managed facilities. If an exemption is granted, you must still complete your 14-day self-isolation at home. If you are symptomatic on arrival you will still be placed in quarantine. If you are already in managed isolation and want to apply for an exemption due to a serious and unmanageable medical condition please inform the facility management team at your hotel, who will be able to assist you to complete the application form. If you are due to fly to New Zealand you must apply for an exemption before you travel. If you do not hold an exemption before you fly you will be placed in managed isolation. To apply, complete the application form and email it to MI_Exemptions@health.govt.nz with the subject "Application for exemption from managed isolation". Application form for exemption from managed self-isolation [PDF, 117 KB] The information you are required to provide includes: the full name of all those applying for exemption as detailed on passport used to enter New Zealand date of birth National Health Index (NHI) number if known the flight number and date of arrival in New Zealand if not yet booked, provide planned dates a statement setting out your rationale for requesting an exemption, along with any supporting evidence your proposed self-isolation plan including address, and your proposed travel plan to the self-isolation location, for example, private car. Exemptions are only being granted in extremely limited circumstances to protect New Zealanders and the investment that we are making in eliminating COVID-19. To be eligible for an exemption you must: be assessed as not needing to go into quarantine at the border, and fit into one of the exemption categories, and have a suitable self-isolation plan. The exemption categories are: a minor who is travelling alone — this exemption allows a parent or caregiver to join the minor in managed isolation, not for the minor to leave self-isolation individuals arriving as medical transfers — if being transferred to hospital, a letter from the DHB verifying they will enable self-isolation in hospital or discharged within 14 days, they will be required to complete the time in a managed isolation facility. individuals with physical or other needs that cannot be appropriately accommodated at the managed facilities — applications in this category need to be supported with clinical evidence from a registered medical practitioner. Needs considered are the needs of the individual arriving in New Zealand, not of others already in New Zealand workers critical to the COVID-19 response required to undertake tasks during the 14 days isolation — applications in this category need to be supported by a letter from the relevant government department, essential service employers or lifeline utility. If you fit into one of the exemption categories you must also have an acceptable self-isolation plan. You must have a suitable private residence to complete your self-isolation. You must not self-isolate with at-risk people such as those over 70, those with medical conditions, or pregnant women. Critical workers must also provide a health and safety plan on how they will maintain self-isolation while undertaking their relevant tasks, and confirm that they will be able to access necessities such as food while remaining in self-isolation. You must drive directly to your self-isolation location. You must not use rental cars, lease cars or public transport such as taxis, Uber, buses, trains, ferries, or domestic flights. Legal guardians travelling to managed facilities are permitted to use any form of transport, using their travel exemption letter. Critical workers are permitted to use rental cars, if using an approved provider. You must use a private car to take you directly to this self-isolation location. This can be either: a self-drive private car already parked at the airport a private car driven by someone living at their intended self-isolation location, for example someone within their bubble at the same address. Only the driver should travel to the airport to pick them up — no other passengers. You must agree to follow proper hygiene and physical distancing while travelling to your self-isolation location: While moving through the airport and then driving home, please observe best hygiene practices, including covering your coughs and sneezes, washing your hands / using hand sanitiser; and avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands. You must have no face-to-face contact closer than 2 metres with anybody other than the person driving your private car. If you applied for an exemption and it was declined, you can request that your application be reconsidered. To have your application reconsidered, email MI_Exemptions@health.govt.nz and provide the details of your original application with any requested additional information. --- Section Separator --- If you arrived before 10 April and went into isolation or quarantine away from your home, you need a plan for how you will travel home when you are allowed to leave. You must pass a health screen before you can leave managed isolation or quarantine. If you are in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, the facility management team in your location will arrange any necessary onward travel for you. Please discuss this with them. If you are in self-isolation away from your home, for example in a hotel, you will need to apply for a travel exemption to continue your onward travel when your 14-day isolation period is complete. To apply for a travel exemption you must provide proof that your onward domestic travel was interrupted by Alert Level 4 restrictions. For example, provide an expired domestic ticket. To apply, email travel@ncmc.govt.nz with the subject "Application for domestic travel after completing 14-day isolation". Your email must include: full name of all those applying for exemption as detailed on passport used to enter New Zealand flight number and date of arrival in New Zealand including evidence/proof of international travel current self-isolation address evidence that you have been at that address for the required 14-day isolation period. For example an accommodation receipt or letter from the provider including the email address and phone number of the provider. proposed address for Alert Level 3 such as a home address whether you require transport to your proposed address. If you have your own transport, provide details, for example, a private car's licence plate number preferred date of move which must be at least 14 days after arrival any evidence that may support the case. Do not start your travel until you have received your exemption letter – public transport providers will not permit travel without this. If you require transport, such as a domestic flight, we will contact you to discuss these arrangements. --- Section Separator --- If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. For advice, support and general enquiries please call 0800 22 66 57 , 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, weekends and public holidays. Find COVID-19 information from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Or call Immigration New Zealand on 0508 225 288 or +64 9 952 1679 if you’re outside New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ --- Section Separator --- If you’re a New Zealander currently outside New Zealand and you’re intending to return home, you’re encouraged to do so as soon as possible. You can still return to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. You can also bring immediate family, such as a partner or spouse, legal guardian and dependent children under the age of 24. When you arrive in New Zealand you will go into managed isolation or quarantine for at least 14 days. Information for people arriving in New Zealand Countries around the world are closing their borders and imposing stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. You should contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. You should also contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Get emergency consular assistance if you need it. Call: +64 99 20 20 20 if you're outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you're in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian super. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re a New Zealander currently outside New Zealand and you’re intending to return home, you’re encouraged to do so as soon as possible. You can still return to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. You can also bring immediate family, such as a partner or spouse, legal guardian and dependent children under the age of 24. When you arrive in New Zealand you will go into managed isolation or quarantine for at least 14 days. Information for people arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Countries around the world are closing their borders and imposing stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. You should contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. You should also contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Get emergency consular assistance if you need it. Call: +64 99 20 20 20 if you're outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you're in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian super. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Cruise ships --- Section Separator --- Cruise ships are banned from coming into New Zealand until at least 30 June 2020. All people in New Zealand are advised to avoid all non-essential overseas travel, including cruises. The virus can spread quickly onboard cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. --- Section Separator --- Cruise ships are banned from coming into New Zealand until at least 30 June 2020. All people in New Zealand are advised to avoid all non-essential overseas travel, including cruises. The virus can spread quickly onboard cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel International travel --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has made further travel restrictions to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. New Zealand's borders are closed for entry to almost all travellers. New Zealand citizens and residents may return but will be subject to restrictions upon entry. No other foreign traveller can now enter New Zealand. Information for imminent or recent arrivals More information on travel visas Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. It is also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to return home while commercial options remain available. There are extensive border restrictions in place around the world and increasingly limited transport options. New Zealanders are advised to register their details with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) All travellers should consult the official website of the country they wish to enter or transit, or that country's diplomatic representative in their country of departure, before travelling. They should also contact their travel insurance provider. As the global situation changes, and more borders close, it will become harder to travel. Foreign nationals can use international air services to travel home. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now take domestic flights in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Criteria for taking a domestic flight to connect with an international flight Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you are unable to secure a ticket please contact your country embassy. How to get home guide and other information (external link) We're sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and are unable to return to their home at the moment. Travellers with a temporary visa due to expire between 1 April and 9 July 2020 will have their visas extended to late September. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. More information on Travel visas The Government is providing temporary accommodation to those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. How to get temporary accommodation (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country Easy Read [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country Easy Read [PDF, 604 KB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] Audio information for international visitors is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has made further travel restrictions to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. New Zealand's borders are closed for entry to almost all travellers. New Zealand citizens and residents may return but will be subject to restrictions upon entry. No other foreign traveller can now enter New Zealand. Information for imminent or recent arrivals More information on travel visas Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. It is also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to return home while commercial options remain available. There are extensive border restrictions in place around the world and increasingly limited transport options. New Zealanders are advised to register their details with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) All travellers should consult the official website of the country they wish to enter or transit, or that country's diplomatic representative in their country of departure, before travelling. They should also contact their travel insurance provider. --- Section Separator --- As the global situation changes, and more borders close, it will become harder to travel. Foreign nationals can use international air services to travel home. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now take domestic flights in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Criteria for taking a domestic flight to connect with an international flight Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you are unable to secure a ticket please contact your country embassy. How to get home guide and other information (external link) We're sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and are unable to return to their home at the moment. Travellers with a temporary visa due to expire between 1 April and 9 July 2020 will have their visas extended to late September. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. More information on Travel visas The Government is providing temporary accommodation to those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. How to get temporary accommodation (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country Easy Read [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country Easy Read [PDF, 604 KB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Getting the help and support you need during COVID-19 Easy Read [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [DOCX, 70 KB] Welfare — Getting the help and support you need factsheet Large Print [PDF, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- Audio information for international visitors is included in the general welfare advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Leaving your house --- Section Separator --- Just like Alert Level 4, people should stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for those at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] If you do leave the house: keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times stay local if you go out for exercise only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble if you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later help our emergency services by only doing activities that you can do safely you can do activities that are local, that you are experienced in and which do not involve interacting with other people or equipment touched by other people, don’t go out on the water — boating, jet-skiing and scuba diving is not allowed don’t do any team sports or training don’t touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds don’t travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes only shop for essential supplies wash your hands regularly. See more tips about shopping safely See more information about exercising safely Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example, to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to visit local essential services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you are over 70, or are immunosuppressed, you should not be leaving the house at all. If you do leave the house: keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times stay local if you go out for exercise only exercise alone or with the people you live with if you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later help our emergency services by only doing safe activities, such as going for a walk don't do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping don’t touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds don’t travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes only shop for essential supplies wash your hands regularly. See more tips about shopping safely Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local “close” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Activities must be safe. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to be kind to one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Travelling on public transport, in cars and walking, cycling or scootering Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Just like Alert Level 4, people should stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for those at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] If you do leave the house: keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times stay local if you go out for exercise only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble if you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later help our emergency services by only doing activities that you can do safely you can do activities that are local, that you are experienced in and which do not involve interacting with other people or equipment touched by other people, don’t go out on the water — boating, jet-skiing and scuba diving is not allowed don’t do any team sports or training don’t touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds don’t travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes only shop for essential supplies wash your hands regularly. See more tips about shopping safely See more information about exercising safely --- Section Separator --- Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example, to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to visit local essential services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you are over 70, or are immunosuppressed, you should not be leaving the house at all. If you do leave the house: keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times stay local if you go out for exercise only exercise alone or with the people you live with if you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later help our emergency services by only doing safe activities, such as going for a walk don't do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping don’t touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds don’t travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes only shop for essential supplies wash your hands regularly. See more tips about shopping safely --- Section Separator --- Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local “close” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Activities must be safe. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to be kind to one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Travelling on public transport, in cars and walking, cycling or scootering --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Public, private and active transport --- Section Separator --- There is different guidance on public, private and active transport depending on the Alert Level we are in. At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Don’t travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Maintain physical distancing from other people on public transport, unless you are travelling with people in your bubble. You can use a private vehicle for transport, but only for: accessing essential services shopping for food or medicine an essential worker travelling to, from, or as part of your essential work. You should only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only use public transport and private vehicles for essential reasons. Public transport during Alert Level 4 is only available for people working in essential services, and for the general public to access essential services, for example for medical reasons or to get to the supermarket. Ferry services, road and rail will still be available for the transport of essential goods. More information from the Ministry of Transport (external link) You can use a private vehicle for transport, but only for: accessing essential services shopping for food or medicine an essential worker travelling to, from, or as part of your essential work. You should only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. If your Warrant of Fitness or Certificate of Fitness expired after 1 January 2020, it will be considered valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. If you are driving a vehicle with an expired Warrant of Fitness, you are expected to ensure the vehicle is safe. If you think your vehicle is unsafe, do not drive it. If your driver licence expired after 1 January 2020, it will be considered valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. License endorsements, such as for driving commercial passengers or carrying dangerous goods, that expired after 1 March 2020 will also be extended for up to 6 months. Any licence suspensions and disqualifications will continue to apply. Further guidance from the Ministry of Transport (external link) Walking and other active travel like cycling or scootering, are fine during Alert Level 4, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Stick to simple outdoor exercise near to where you live and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Any questions relating to transport should go to the Ministry of Transport at essentialtransport@transport.govt.nz . Ministry of Transport guidance on transport during Alert Level 4 (external link) If you have any COVID-19 related concerns please call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. To help limit the spread of any virus, those who are unwell should stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- There is different guidance on public, private and active transport depending on the Alert Level we are in. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Don’t travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Maintain physical distancing from other people on public transport, unless you are travelling with people in your bubble. You can use a private vehicle for transport, but only for: accessing essential services shopping for food or medicine an essential worker travelling to, from, or as part of your essential work. You should only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only use public transport and private vehicles for essential reasons. Public transport during Alert Level 4 is only available for people working in essential services, and for the general public to access essential services, for example for medical reasons or to get to the supermarket. Ferry services, road and rail will still be available for the transport of essential goods. More information from the Ministry of Transport (external link) You can use a private vehicle for transport, but only for: accessing essential services shopping for food or medicine an essential worker travelling to, from, or as part of your essential work. You should only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. If your Warrant of Fitness or Certificate of Fitness expired after 1 January 2020, it will be considered valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. If you are driving a vehicle with an expired Warrant of Fitness, you are expected to ensure the vehicle is safe. If you think your vehicle is unsafe, do not drive it. If your driver licence expired after 1 January 2020, it will be considered valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. License endorsements, such as for driving commercial passengers or carrying dangerous goods, that expired after 1 March 2020 will also be extended for up to 6 months. Any licence suspensions and disqualifications will continue to apply. Further guidance from the Ministry of Transport (external link) Walking and other active travel like cycling or scootering, are fine during Alert Level 4, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Stick to simple outdoor exercise near to where you live and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Any questions relating to transport should go to the Ministry of Transport at essentialtransport@transport.govt.nz . Ministry of Transport guidance on transport during Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have any COVID-19 related concerns please call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. To help limit the spread of any virus, those who are unwell should stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Alert Level 3 travel Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Taxi and ride-sharing services --- Section Separator --- If you have any COVID-19 related concerns call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. To limit the spread of any virus, people who are unwell should stay at home. If you’re unwell and must travel, you must use private transport. If that’s not possible, call Healthline for guidance first. If you do not have COVID-19-related concerns, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. If you do not have COVID-19 related concerns you can use taxis and ride-sharing services, but only for essential reasons. Essential and emergency workers can continue to use taxis and ride-sharing services while carrying out essential services, such as getting to and from work. Everyone else can only use taxis and ride-sharing services for essential reasons. These include getting to the supermarket, pharmacy or vet, and to access routine medical services, not related to COVID-19, or for facilitating shared custody. In addition to general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home you should also wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. Passengers must sit in the rear passenger seats only — you must not sit in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. Apart from the driver, you must only travel in the same vehicle as people from the same isolation group or household group. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have any COVID-19 related concerns call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. To limit the spread of any virus, people who are unwell should stay at home. If you’re unwell and must travel, you must use private transport. If that’s not possible, call Healthline for guidance first. --- Section Separator --- If you do not have COVID-19-related concerns, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. --- Section Separator --- If you do not have COVID-19 related concerns you can use taxis and ride-sharing services, but only for essential reasons. Essential and emergency workers can continue to use taxis and ride-sharing services while carrying out essential services, such as getting to and from work. Everyone else can only use taxis and ride-sharing services for essential reasons. These include getting to the supermarket, pharmacy or vet, and to access routine medical services, not related to COVID-19, or for facilitating shared custody. --- Section Separator --- In addition to general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home you should also wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. Passengers must sit in the rear passenger seats only — you must not sit in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. Apart from the driver, you must only travel in the same vehicle as people from the same isolation group or household group. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Travel visas --- Section Separator --- If you are a visitor to New Zealand and you're unable to return home at the moment — check your visa. We're sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and are unable to return to their home. Some visas have been automatically extended. Your visa will have been extended to 25 September 2020 if: you hold a work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa, and your visa has an expiry date of 2 April to 11:59 pm, 9 July 2020, and you were in New Zealand on 2 April. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. If you now wish to work while in New Zealand because your situation has changed, please ensure you have the correct visa. You can apply for a new work visa while you are in New Zealand. Call 0508 558 855 to get more information. Immigration changes because of COVID-19 (external link) Visa conditions have been relaxed for temporary migrant workers and international students who work in essential services. This temporary measure will support our essential services during the COVID-19 response. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) Immigration New Zealand currently has limited capacity to process visas. The following visa categories are being prioritised for applicants who are already in New Zealand: visa applications for victims of domestic violence partnership category temporary visas including reassessments full fee-paying student visas post-study work visas. Immigration NZ will not be processing application types outside of this list at the moment. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. If you are a New Zealand citizen or resident you may return to New Zealand. You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. See more information about arriving back in New Zealand If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident you need to get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Travel exceptions can include: Partners, dependent children, aged 24 years and under, and legal guardians of New Zealand citizens and residents who are travelling with their New Zealand family member Australian citizens and permanent residents who normally live in New Zealand People with one of the following critical purposes in New Zealand: essential health workers other essential workers who the New Zealand Government has agreed to Samoan and Tongan citizens making essential travel New Zealand-based partners and dependent children, aged 19 years and under, of a work or student visa holder who is in New Zealand critical humanitarian travel. essential health workers other essential workers who the New Zealand Government has agreed to Samoan and Tongan citizens making essential travel New Zealand-based partners and dependent children, aged 19 years and under, of a work or student visa holder who is in New Zealand critical humanitarian travel. All other travel to New Zealand by people who hold an NZeTA or a current work, student, visitor, limited, or transit visa is not allowed. The Government has postponed: selections for expressions of interest (EOI) in the Skilled Migrant Category (SMC) and the Parent Category ballot registrations for the Samoan Quota (SQ) and Pacific Access Category (PAC) 19 capped Working Holiday schemes due to open in the next 6 months. This is a temporary measure. Immigration NZ will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a visitor to New Zealand and you're unable to return home at the moment — check your visa. We're sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and are unable to return to their home. --- Section Separator --- Some visas have been automatically extended. Your visa will have been extended to 25 September 2020 if: you hold a work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa, and your visa has an expiry date of 2 April to 11:59 pm, 9 July 2020, and you were in New Zealand on 2 April. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. If you now wish to work while in New Zealand because your situation has changed, please ensure you have the correct visa. You can apply for a new work visa while you are in New Zealand. Call 0508 558 855 to get more information. Immigration changes because of COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Visa conditions have been relaxed for temporary migrant workers and international students who work in essential services. This temporary measure will support our essential services during the COVID-19 response. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Immigration New Zealand currently has limited capacity to process visas. The following visa categories are being prioritised for applicants who are already in New Zealand: visa applications for victims of domestic violence partnership category temporary visas including reassessments full fee-paying student visas post-study work visas. Immigration NZ will not be processing application types outside of this list at the moment. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. If you are a New Zealand citizen or resident you may return to New Zealand. You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. See more information about arriving back in New Zealand If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident you need to get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Travel exceptions can include: Partners, dependent children, aged 24 years and under, and legal guardians of New Zealand citizens and residents who are travelling with their New Zealand family member Australian citizens and permanent residents who normally live in New Zealand People with one of the following critical purposes in New Zealand: essential health workers other essential workers who the New Zealand Government has agreed to Samoan and Tongan citizens making essential travel New Zealand-based partners and dependent children, aged 19 years and under, of a work or student visa holder who is in New Zealand critical humanitarian travel. essential health workers other essential workers who the New Zealand Government has agreed to Samoan and Tongan citizens making essential travel New Zealand-based partners and dependent children, aged 19 years and under, of a work or student visa holder who is in New Zealand critical humanitarian travel. All other travel to New Zealand by people who hold an NZeTA or a current work, student, visitor, limited, or transit visa is not allowed. --- Section Separator --- The Government has postponed: selections for expressions of interest (EOI) in the Skilled Migrant Category (SMC) and the Parent Category ballot registrations for the Samoan Quota (SQ) and Pacific Access Category (PAC) 19 capped Working Holiday schemes due to open in the next 6 months. This is a temporary measure. Immigration NZ will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Travel within New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. The primary aim of these restrictions is to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Reducing contact between people is the best way to fight COVID-19 and ultimately save lives in New Zealand. Leaving your house Public, private and active travel Travel within, and between, regions is allowed for permitted movement. But, you should stay as close to home as possible. The regions are defined as the 16 Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups: Northland Auckland Waikato Bay of Plenty Hawke’s Bay Tairāwhiti Taranaki Manawatū-Whanganui Wellington Marlborough Nelson Canterbury West Coast Otago Southland Chatham Islands Regions map [PDF, 6 MB] Other travel should not be undertaken. The risk of transmitting COVID-19 is too high. This is not a time to take a holiday, travel between regions to celebrate birthdays or travel from one side of a city to the other to go to a supermarket when there is a suitable one in your local area. For example – travel to or from Waiheke Island for any non-essential reason is not permitted. You cannot go to visit a rental property unless you are performing essential maintenance necessary to ensure the safety of the building. You cannot stay overnight. You are only allowed to travel in your local area if it’s for an essential reason. Essential reasons include travel to: access local services and businesses that are allowed to be open going to work and school take part in low-risk recreation visit people in your extended bubble travel to permitted gatherings. If you’re travelling by public transport you should avoid peak times unless you are travelling for work or school. Exercising safely Public, private and active transport While we're at Alert Level 3 you can only travel between regions if you’re: a worker travelling for essential work going to work or school only if it is in a neighbouring region travelling for medical reasons travelling for compassionate reasons and have permission to do so living with a shared bubble arrangement relocating a home or business returning home, after being stuck when the Alert Level restrictions came into place a foreign national leaving New Zealand except on Cook Strait ferries a New Zealander living in the Cook Islands, Niue, or Tokelau who is connecting to an international flight to one of these islands a New Zealander returning home after 14 days isolation or quarantine at your port of arrival going to a funeral or tangihanga. Regions map [PDF, 6 MB] If you were in the wrong place when the restrictions came into place, and need to get home, you can now move throughout New Zealand to do so. You can only move once and in one direction. You are not allowed to travel between regions for any other reason. Information on inter-regional travel from the Ministry of Transport (external link) You must not travel if you: have been required to self-isolate/quarantine are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a result from a COVID-19 test are suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19. Advice about staying at home and self-isolating At Alert Level 4 travel is severely limited. You’re only allowed to travel locally if it is for an essential reason. Otherwise, you must stay at home and within your bubble. You can only travel within, or between, regions if you’re: a worker travelling to do essential work travelling for medical reasons travelling for compassionate reasons and have permission to do so a foreign national leaving New Zealand except on Cook Strait ferries a New Zealander living in the Cook Islands, Niue, or Tokelau who is connecting to an international flight to one of these islands a New Zealander returning home after 14 days’ isolation or quarantine at your port of arrival. No other regional travel is allowed. Transport providers will ensure physical distancing is enforced during travel. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can travel domestically in order to connect with international flights to their home country. To travel to an international airport you can: self-drive including a rental car be driven by a member of your current household group use a taxi or ride-sharing service take a chartered vehicle service use land-based public transport. You must travel by the most direct route, and comply with physical distancing requirements throughout your journey. There are several criteria that foreign nationals must meet in order to travel to an international airport: You must hold a ticket for an international flight. If you’re taking a domestic flight, you must have a ticket booked for an international flight leaving Auckland or Christchurch. You can arrive in the city of your departure from New Zealand up to 24 hour hours before your international flight departs. You must have the right to transit through all countries on your itinerary. You must be able to drive, take public or private land transport, or a taxi or ride-share service. You must travel by the most direct route possible. You must also meet the following public health criteria, and will be questioned before travelling. You must meet all these requirements: You are not diagnosed with COVID-19 or have been declared as recovered by a medical doctor. You do not have symptoms consistent with COVID-19. You are not awaiting results for COVID19 testing. You are not a close contact of a suspected, probable or confirmed case of COVID-19. You have not travelled internationally within the last 14 days. Any foreign national who does not meet those criteria should continue to shelter in place in their current location. If you fail to meet these criteria you will not be able to take your international flight and may have to go into quarantine or managed self-isolation. Foreign nationals who require more information or support should contact their country’s embassy or consulate. Chartered flights will be organised and ticketed through foreign missions. Information about embassies in New Zealand (external link) You should make every effort to return your rental vehicle to a representative of the company you hired from. If you’re unable to return the rented vehicle: leave your vehicle parked and secured in a safe area. Return the keys to airport staff. If arriving by domestic flight: Immediately collect your baggage if not checked through. Proceed to the international terminal. You’ll be required to present your ticket and passport before you can enter the international terminal. You must immediately self-isolate in accordance with Alert Level 4 restrictions if: your international flight is not within 24 hours of your domestic flight, and you arrive at an international airport. You will be refused entry to the international airport. You must check-in for your flight as soon as it is open, and immediately proceed through security and immigration. If you need to support someone who is in an urgent or exceptional medical condition you can apply for an exemption to travel in New Zealand. Requests to travel on compassionate grounds can only be considered for a limited number of reasons. You must also provide evidence to support your application. How to apply for an exemption --- Section Separator --- Travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. The primary aim of these restrictions is to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Reducing contact between people is the best way to fight COVID-19 and ultimately save lives in New Zealand. Leaving your house Public, private and active travel Travel within, and between, regions is allowed for permitted movement. But, you should stay as close to home as possible. The regions are defined as the 16 Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups: Northland Auckland Waikato Bay of Plenty Hawke’s Bay Tairāwhiti Taranaki Manawatū-Whanganui Wellington Marlborough Nelson Canterbury West Coast Otago Southland Chatham Islands Regions map [PDF, 6 MB] Other travel should not be undertaken. The risk of transmitting COVID-19 is too high. This is not a time to take a holiday, travel between regions to celebrate birthdays or travel from one side of a city to the other to go to a supermarket when there is a suitable one in your local area. For example – travel to or from Waiheke Island for any non-essential reason is not permitted. You cannot go to visit a rental property unless you are performing essential maintenance necessary to ensure the safety of the building. You cannot stay overnight. --- Section Separator --- You are only allowed to travel in your local area if it’s for an essential reason. Essential reasons include travel to: access local services and businesses that are allowed to be open going to work and school take part in low-risk recreation visit people in your extended bubble travel to permitted gatherings. If you’re travelling by public transport you should avoid peak times unless you are travelling for work or school. Exercising safely Public, private and active transport While we're at Alert Level 3 you can only travel between regions if you’re: a worker travelling for essential work going to work or school only if it is in a neighbouring region travelling for medical reasons travelling for compassionate reasons and have permission to do so living with a shared bubble arrangement relocating a home or business returning home, after being stuck when the Alert Level restrictions came into place a foreign national leaving New Zealand except on Cook Strait ferries a New Zealander living in the Cook Islands, Niue, or Tokelau who is connecting to an international flight to one of these islands a New Zealander returning home after 14 days isolation or quarantine at your port of arrival going to a funeral or tangihanga. Regions map [PDF, 6 MB] If you were in the wrong place when the restrictions came into place, and need to get home, you can now move throughout New Zealand to do so. You can only move once and in one direction. You are not allowed to travel between regions for any other reason. Information on inter-regional travel from the Ministry of Transport (external link) You must not travel if you: have been required to self-isolate/quarantine are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a result from a COVID-19 test are suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19. Advice about staying at home and self-isolating --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4 travel is severely limited. You’re only allowed to travel locally if it is for an essential reason. Otherwise, you must stay at home and within your bubble. You can only travel within, or between, regions if you’re: a worker travelling to do essential work travelling for medical reasons travelling for compassionate reasons and have permission to do so a foreign national leaving New Zealand except on Cook Strait ferries a New Zealander living in the Cook Islands, Niue, or Tokelau who is connecting to an international flight to one of these islands a New Zealander returning home after 14 days’ isolation or quarantine at your port of arrival. No other regional travel is allowed. Transport providers will ensure physical distancing is enforced during travel. --- Section Separator --- Foreign nationals in New Zealand can travel domestically in order to connect with international flights to their home country. To travel to an international airport you can: self-drive including a rental car be driven by a member of your current household group use a taxi or ride-sharing service take a chartered vehicle service use land-based public transport. You must travel by the most direct route, and comply with physical distancing requirements throughout your journey. There are several criteria that foreign nationals must meet in order to travel to an international airport: You must hold a ticket for an international flight. If you’re taking a domestic flight, you must have a ticket booked for an international flight leaving Auckland or Christchurch. You can arrive in the city of your departure from New Zealand up to 24 hour hours before your international flight departs. You must have the right to transit through all countries on your itinerary. You must be able to drive, take public or private land transport, or a taxi or ride-share service. You must travel by the most direct route possible. You must also meet the following public health criteria, and will be questioned before travelling. You must meet all these requirements: You are not diagnosed with COVID-19 or have been declared as recovered by a medical doctor. You do not have symptoms consistent with COVID-19. You are not awaiting results for COVID19 testing. You are not a close contact of a suspected, probable or confirmed case of COVID-19. You have not travelled internationally within the last 14 days. Any foreign national who does not meet those criteria should continue to shelter in place in their current location. If you fail to meet these criteria you will not be able to take your international flight and may have to go into quarantine or managed self-isolation. Foreign nationals who require more information or support should contact their country’s embassy or consulate. Chartered flights will be organised and ticketed through foreign missions. Information about embassies in New Zealand (external link) You should make every effort to return your rental vehicle to a representative of the company you hired from. If you’re unable to return the rented vehicle: leave your vehicle parked and secured in a safe area. Return the keys to airport staff. If arriving by domestic flight: Immediately collect your baggage if not checked through. Proceed to the international terminal. You’ll be required to present your ticket and passport before you can enter the international terminal. You must immediately self-isolate in accordance with Alert Level 4 restrictions if: your international flight is not within 24 hours of your domestic flight, and you arrive at an international airport. You will be refused entry to the international airport. You must check-in for your flight as soon as it is open, and immediately proceed through security and immigration. --- Section Separator --- If you need to support someone who is in an urgent or exceptional medical condition you can apply for an exemption to travel in New Zealand. Requests to travel on compassionate grounds can only be considered for a limited number of reasons. You must also provide evidence to support your application. How to apply for an exemption --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand Exemption for travel in New Zealand Exemption for travel in New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Home Individuals and households Travel Travel within New Zealand Exemption for travel in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- While we ’ re at Alert Levels 3 and 4, permission to travel in New Zealand outside your region may be granted in rare circumstances. R equests to travel on compassionate grounds can only be considered for a limited number of reasons. You must also provide evidence to support your application. There is no cost to apply. You can travel between regions to attend a funeral or tangihanga. You do not need permission, but there are some restrictions . Travelling to a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 3 There are different eligibility criteria depending on who you need to support . The minimum evidence required is: a document showing your relationship to the minor, and a document from a healthcare provider or social services confirming the condition of the person needing support. For example, a letter. Evidence that may be helpful: Care and protection orders Individuals can apply to travel to be with someone in a critical or terminal condition if that person does not have an appropriate support network. An appropriate support network is considered to be up to 3 adults. Note that the visitation policies at different hospitals, hospices and rest homes may not allow more than 1 visitor at a time, or per day. The minimum evidence required is: a document from a health care provider or social services confirming the condition of the person needing support. For example, a letter. Evidence that may be helpful: Written confirmation that you are permitted access to the facility where the person is. For example, a hospital, rest home, hospice or other facility. The minimum evidence required is: a document from a health care provider or social services confirming the condition of the person needing support. For example, a letter. Evidence that may be helpful: Confirmation that you plan to stay until the end of the lockdown. Requests to travel will not be accepted for : support ing someone with COVID-19 visit ing someone in a hospital that is not allowing visitors visit ing someone in a hospice and rest home that is not allowing visitors be ing with someone who is elderly. Your application will only be approved if the purpose for travelling cannot be achieved through other means. For example, locally available support is not adequate, or teleconferencing is not possible. All applications must be for a single journey, and cannot cover multiple trips, even for the same reason. Download and complete the travel application form. You can complete the form in your web browser or print it off and scan the completed form. Send this travel application form by email to travel@ncmc.govt.nz . You will need to attach digital copies of required evidence with your email. Download and complete the travel application form [PDF, 493 KB] Do not travel unless you are granted permission. You’ll be contacted to confirm when your application is received. You r application will be checked against the eligibility criteria. If your application is approved you’ll be told that you can travel. You’ll be contacted on the outcome of your application within 48 hours of when you applied. --- Section Separator --- While we ’ re at Alert Levels 3 and 4, permission to travel in New Zealand outside your region may be granted in rare circumstances. R equests to travel on compassionate grounds can only be considered for a limited number of reasons. You must also provide evidence to support your application. There is no cost to apply. You can travel between regions to attend a funeral or tangihanga. You do not need permission, but there are some restrictions . Travelling to a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- There are different eligibility criteria depending on who you need to support . The minimum evidence required is: a document showing your relationship to the minor, and a document from a healthcare provider or social services confirming the condition of the person needing support. For example, a letter. Evidence that may be helpful: Care and protection orders Individuals can apply to travel to be with someone in a critical or terminal condition if that person does not have an appropriate support network. An appropriate support network is considered to be up to 3 adults. Note that the visitation policies at different hospitals, hospices and rest homes may not allow more than 1 visitor at a time, or per day. The minimum evidence required is: a document from a health care provider or social services confirming the condition of the person needing support. For example, a letter. Evidence that may be helpful: Written confirmation that you are permitted access to the facility where the person is. For example, a hospital, rest home, hospice or other facility. The minimum evidence required is: a document from a health care provider or social services confirming the condition of the person needing support. For example, a letter. Evidence that may be helpful: Confirmation that you plan to stay until the end of the lockdown. --- Section Separator --- Requests to travel will not be accepted for : support ing someone with COVID-19 visit ing someone in a hospital that is not allowing visitors visit ing someone in a hospice and rest home that is not allowing visitors be ing with someone who is elderly. --- Section Separator --- Your application will only be approved if the purpose for travelling cannot be achieved through other means. For example, locally available support is not adequate, or teleconferencing is not possible. All applications must be for a single journey, and cannot cover multiple trips, even for the same reason. --- Section Separator --- Download and complete the travel application form. You can complete the form in your web browser or print it off and scan the completed form. Send this travel application form by email to travel@ncmc.govt.nz . You will need to attach digital copies of required evidence with your email. Download and complete the travel application form [PDF, 493 KB] Do not travel unless you are granted permission. --- Section Separator --- You’ll be contacted to confirm when your application is received. You r application will be checked against the eligibility criteria. If your application is approved you’ll be told that you can travel. You’ll be contacted on the outcome of your application within 48 hours of when you applied. --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Arriving back in New Zealand Travel within New Zealand Exemption for travel in New Zealand Exemption for travel in New Zealand International travel NZ citizens and residents outside NZ Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Cruise ships Travel visas
Displaying 1-10 of 116 updates 08 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 07 May 2020 The Government has released more information on how Alert Level 2 will work. 07 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 05 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 04 May 2020 Watch the latest media conference with the Prime Minister. 04 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 02 May 2020 The Government has announced more support for tertiary learners to access digital devices and internet connections. 01 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 01 May 2020 The Government will provide interest free loans for a year to small businesses impacted by the COVID-19 economic shock to support their immediate cashflow needs
The Government has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with the hard-hit region of Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be the first helped, Economic Development Minister Phil Twyford, Forestry and Regional Economic Development Minister Shane Jones and Employment Minister Willie Jackson announced today. Find out more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders and their jobs from the global impact of COVID-19. Read more (external link)
The Government has reinforced its commitment to protecting the health of New Zealanders from COVID-19 through the cancellation of indoor events with more than 100 people. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) For more information and guidance visit the Ministry of Health website (external link)
Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Find advice for essential workers making childcare arrangements Generally, children in the same communities can continue to go between their homes. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. More advice for families with shared custody
COVID-19 is a challenge like we have never seen before. Our goal is to eliminate COVID-19 from New Zealand, so that we can live and work free from this disease. This is the best thing we can do for our people, our communities, and our economy. We attacked the disease early and hard by going into lockdown or Alert Level 4. This has put us in a good position to eliminate the disease, bank those gains and to get ready to transition to Alert Level 3. When this decision is made, it will be because we have transmission under control and can tolerate a little more risk. Getting this far has required a collective effort by every New Zealander.  We are all making extraordinary sacrifices to protect the people, communities, businesses and traditions we care about. Thank you. We will not risk going to Alert Level 3 too early. We will move when we have met four criteria: We know that community transmission is under control, and the transmission rate is very low. We have robust measures at the border stopping new infection. We have tracing and testing capacity to shut down any new outbreak. We have supplies for, and capacity, in the health system. It is vital that everyone knows we are still under Alert Level 4, and all Alert Level 4 restrictions remain in place. Under Alert Level Three we will still have significant restrictions on our day-to-day lives. The risk of COVID-19 will have diminished, but not gone away. If we are successful in controlling COVID-19 under Alert Level 3 we will be able to move down to Alert Level 2, where there are far fewer restrictions. Alert Level 3 information Overview of the Alert Level System Alert level tables: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level - updated 16 April 2020 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level - new as of 16 April 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB]
The Government’s commitment to protecting New Zealanders’ health is being backed by an initial dedicated $500 million fund to strengthen our health services to fight and contain COVID-19. They have announced: Dedicated $500 million fund to protect New Zealanders’ health Nearly doubling resources for Public Health Units, specifically to increase capacity for contact tracing $32 million for extra intensive care capacity and equipment at hospitals $50 million in support for GPs and primary care, and $20 million to improve video conferencing and telehealth consultations $20 million for more Healthline capacity Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
It is okay to go into your business premises now to do the minimum to begin preparing for Alert Level 3. Businesses and other organisations can only: clear, unpack and sort freight clean your premises, and rearrange your workplace for physical distancing between workers. Regular maintenance, and preparing for click and collect should wait until Alert Level 3. You can travel within your region to prepare. You cannot travel to another region to go into your premises until Alert Level 3. You can ask the smallest number of workers possible to come in to help prepare, if you are meeting all health and safety and public health requirements for Alert Level 4. Everyone must stay 2 metres apart, and follow appropriate hygiene measures. Remember that Anzac Day is this weekend, and the normal Holidays Act rules apply. If you do not believe the activity is necessary, or you do not believe your employer is meeting the health and safety and public health requirements, you should raise your concerns with them. Employers need to engage their workers’ views on how best to manage risks for workers. If your concerns are not addressed, you may wish to escalate them to your health and safety representative, union or WorkSafe.
To ensure everybody continues to have access to the prescription medication they need, PHARMAC are temporarily changing the amount pharmacists can dispense at any one time. Prescriptions will be limited for all funded medicines to a 1-month supply, or a 3-month supply for oral contraceptives. You will not have to visit your doctor or other prescriber more often. You will not have to pay any additional charges for filling additional repeat prescriptions, the $5 co-pay for the first time will cover you for your repeats. People will continue to be able to fill prescriptions at their local pharmacy, though you may have to visit more frequently than previously. Many pharmacies are operating delivery options for vulnerable customers. Read more on the Pharmac website (external link)
Ensure people have access to the food and other goods they need to survive Provide a place for people to live Support disabled people to maintain critical wellbeing Keep families safe from harm and offer crisis support
The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. Examples include concerts, festivals and sports matches. Read more (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials will start at 4pm today. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference.
Home Updates Transcript of COVID-19 media conference – 20 April --- Section Separator --- Tēnā koutou katoa. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou. Over the past few weeks, I’ve often used my time at this podium to acknowledge the people on the front line. Today I want to remember the people in New Zealand who have lost someone to COVID-19, or the many more who had the terror of almost losing someone. Throughout this pandemic there have been individuals who I have tracked the progress of. I didn’t know their names, but I knew their status, and I still get a phone call for every individual person that we lose to COVID-19 in New Zealand. We may be amongst a small number of countries where that is still able to happen, where the numbers we have lost have been small. But we cannot forget that every number is someone’s father, someone’s mum, a relative, or a friend, and someone that we have all been united in an effort to protect and to save. And that is why we, as a country, took on the challenge of staring down COVID-19, because we believe that decisive action, going hard and going early, gave us the very best chance of stamping out the virus—and it has. We have done what very few countries have been able to do. We have stopped a wave of devastation. Our transmission rate—that is, the number of cases that each person with the virus passes it on to—is now 0.48, less than half a person each. Overseas, the average is 2.5 people. We have amongst the lowest number of confirmed cases per 100,000 people in the world. We have a relatively low proportion of serious cases and, according to the Oxford University Coronavirus Government Response Tracker, one of the lowest mortality rates in the world. Nearly every case identified since April 1 is primarily as a result of overseas travel, or contact with someone with the virus, and often in existing clusters. The number of individual cases that we don’t have an obvious connection in that period now stands at only eight. Our testing has scaled up and we have now tested over 85,000 New Zealanders, one of the highest testing rates per capita in the world. In the last few days, we expanded testing to include random testing in Queenstown, the Waikato, Canterbury, and Auckland. We have tested over a thousand people this way and so far have produced not a single positive result. The Director-General of Health is confident that there is currently no widespread undetected community transmission in New Zealand. In short, the effort of our team of 5 million has broken the chain of transmission and taken a quantum leap forward in our goal to eliminate the virus. Elimination doesn’t mean zero cases; it means zero tolerance for cases. It means when a case emerges—and it will—we test, we contact trace, we isolate, and we do that every single time with the ambition that when we see COVID, we eliminate it. That is how we will keep our transmission rate under 1, and it is how we will keep succeeding—and we have seen success. You—all of you—have stopped the uncontrolled explosion of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and I couldn’t feel prouder of the start that we have made together. But I also feel a huge responsibility to ensure that we do not lose any of the gains that we have made either. On that basis, New Zealand will move out of alert level 4 lockdown at 11.59 p.m. on Monday April 27, one week from today. We will then hold at alert level 3 for two weeks, before reviewing how we are tracking again, and making further decisions at Cabinet on 11 May. In making this decision, Cabinet discussed in depth all of the data we have shared with all of you daily. We looked at the gains we have made in our results, but also our systems. We considered that the longer we are in lockdown, the less likely it is we will need to go back. We also considered moving alert levels on 23 April, which is in just 48 hours’ time. The sacrifice made to date has been huge, and Cabinet wanted to make sure we lock in our gains and give ourselves some additional certainty. Waiting to move alert levels next week costs us just two more business days but gives us much greater long-term health and economic returns down the track. It means we are less likely to have to go backwards. Ultimately, we have taken a balanced approach and one that the Director-General of Health not only supported, but also recommended. This time we now have will be used to prepare, on all fronts. This week, businesses will be allowed to get ready to open—such as employers re-entering premises to receive stock if necessary—but we ask that, in doing so, they stick to social distancing and their bubbles. This is not an early move out of alerts; it is merely a matter of preparation. Same principle applies for preparing schools and the education system. Schools and early learning centres can be accessed this week for cleaning, maintenance, and any other preparations. The current plan is for schools to be able to reopen for a teacher-only day on 28 April as part of their preparation, and we expect those who need to attend to be able to from 29 April. I do want to caution, it may take a bit longer for some schools and early learning centres to be ready, and the Minister of Education will continue to work alongside the education sector in those preparations. And from a health perspective, this week testing will continue, including giving ongoing public confidence that we are reaching isolated, rural, Maōri, and Pacific communities. Contact tracing will be bolstered even further, and we’ll continue to use the best evidence, advice, and modelling we have to make daily decisions to serve New Zealanders. The most important thing to remember in the meantime, though, is that all of this preparation takes us to an alert level in one week’s time—a recovery room of sorts—that has many restrictions. Yes, alert level 3 allows more economic activity like construction, manufacturing, and forestry, but it does not allow more social activity—and for good reason. If we want to make sure that we are a health success story and ensure our economy can start to operate again without the virus taking off, we need to get this next phase right. The worst thing we can do for our country is to yo-yo between levels, with all of the uncertainty that this will bring. We need to move with confidence, and that does mean following the rules. So here is a reminder of the principles for level 3 when we get there. One: stay home. If you are not at work, school, exercising, or getting essentials, then you must be at home—the same as alert level 4. Two: work and learn from home if you can. We still want the vast majority of people working from home and children and young people learning from home. At-risk students and staff should also stay at home, and they will be supported to do so. Early learning centres and schools will physically be open for up to year 10 families that need them. Three: make your business COVID-19 safe. COVID-19 has spread in workplaces, so the quid pro quo of being able to open is doing it in a way that doesn’t spread the virus. Important industries like construction, manufacturing, forestry will be open, as will retail as long as it is contactless. Four: stay regional. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Activities must be safe, keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your bubble, and make minimal trips. Five: keep your bubble as small as possible. If you need to, at level 3 you can expand your bubble a small amount to bring in close family, isolated people, or caregivers. Six: wash your hands often with soap, then dry them. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. And seven:—and this is a really important one—if you’re sick, stay at home, get advice from the GP or Healthline about getting a test, and quickly. I cannot emphasise this enough. All of our success in contact tracing and isolation relies on knowing as soon as we can when you are unwell. There is no stigma to COVID-19. We will only be successful if everyone is willing to play their part in finding it wherever it is. These rules will be so important. We all want to continue to progress down the levels. The best hope of getting back to normal as soon as possible is never getting ahead of where we are right now. So to recap to anyone just tuning in, we are currently in lockdown and are staying there for the next week. From Tuesday morning 28 April, we will move to level 3 and stay there for two weeks. Those two weeks gives us another cycle of transmission to assess how we are doing. From there, we will move if we can and if we’re ready, but only when we’re ready and only when it’s safe. And so this weekend—ANZAC weekend—enjoy the company of your bubble, stay local, reflect on the amazing sacrifices of our forebears. Decades ago they came together in the most testing of circumstances, half a world away, and helped forge who we are today. It was a very, very different battle than the one we are in now, but the character of who we are as a country remains exactly the same. So please, stay strong, stay home, be kind, and let’s finish what we started. I’ll now hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. I just want to comment briefly today on the work over recent weeks on testing and contact tracing, given the significance of both of these for supporting our move to level 3. These are two areas of the public health response that we have scaled significantly over the last two months. Early on, we worked hard to ensure New Zealand implemented its own testing capability, and we have scaled that up significantly week on week, while improving our supply lines for testing kits. This has supported our high testing rates that the Prime Minister referred to, and these are now amongst the highest in the world. In the coming weeks we will continue to focus on testing people with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 and hunting out any undetected cases that might exist. We will continue to undertake community and other sentinel testing as part of our ongoing surveillance. We will also be stepping up our testing on asymptomatic workers in facilities where there have been recent cases, including in healthcare settings, essential businesses, and tourist industry groups, and also proactively testing contacts of new cases where indicated, regardless of symptoms. This will include household, workplace, and social contacts. Equally, contact tracing was one of the first things that we started to scale up, including creating a national service with more than 200 staff who have had the sole focus of tracking down close contacts of confirmed and probable cases. Essentially, what we are doing here is transforming what was a very local, manual process into a national, automated system with scale. This is the first time this has been done in New Zealand, and I am proud of what the team has achieved over the last month. To ensure we are heading in the right direction, I asked Dr Ayesha Verrall to come in and independently review our approach. Dr Verrall has provided a report with very constructive feedback and guidance on how to further build our contact tracing capability and capacity to ensure it achieves our aspiration of gold standard. Her report is being publicly released this afternoon, now that it has been considered by Cabinet, and I will continue to update you on progress with implementing the recommendations. A number of those recommendations have already been put in place or responded to, and work continues apace on the others. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM: All right. Thank you. Happy to take questions. Media: What do you say to someone sitting at home watching this who’s done a hard slog for four weeks and is now being asked to do a whole other week? Haven’t we made it? Haven’t we got across the line? PM: My message to New Zealanders is you have sacrificed too much for us to lose those gains now. Let’s lock them in, make sure we do everything we can not to go backwards, and keep moving forward successfully. Media: Do you appreciate the big ask— PM: Yes I do. Media: —because, I mean, things like funerals, for example, no exceptions there? PM: No. No changes there. Actually, just as I came down, I was shown an email from someone who had lost a loved one who said that they were one of the families who have been affected by the funeral arrangements, but to reinforce not to change them. Now that to me is the extraordinary courage of New Zealanders who, in spite of feeling so acutely the sacrifices that they’re making, believe in the mission that we have together, and that’s the kind of message that reminds me that we are doing the right thing together. Media: And when weighing up the sacrifices for either decision, how hard was this decision to make? PM: Every point along the way, we are having to, of course, make sure that we are looking at the health impacts and also the economic impacts. But, thankfully for New Zealanders, both point to the same path: fight the virus, save lives, and save livelihoods. So this decision has really fallen into place based on all of the evidence, the modelling, the research, and the advice. And we have agreed with the recommendation from the Director-General of Health. Media: And in the lead-up, did you think that we were actually going to move out of lockdown this week? Was that where your head was at last week? PM: My view is I’ve always been willing to wait for the latest information and data we have to give us the best modelling we can and the best advice we can. So we only started considering that over the weekend when we had that information all in front of us so we could do it in real time. So New Zealanders have had the same data we have. Media: How great is the risk that people will get too relaxed now? Because here we are pushing them that extra week, aren’t we pushing them kind of to the brink of lockdown? So how concerned are you that they will get relaxed and stop being compliant? PM: I don’t think New Zealanders want to waste all the effort that they’ve put in already. And also, all of the evidence I’ve seen to date shows that New Zealanders have done an exceptional job, by and large, of sticking with what has been an extraordinary ask. Compared to the rest of the world, we’ve done something that I think is incredible. Media: You’ve said that we’ll lose two business days over the course of the week— PM: That’s relative to the decision of when the four weeks—yep. Media: Sure. Sure. What kind of assessment was that in terms of the economic impact, the impact on businesses? And have you had any response from business about that time frame? PM: And so the economic impact of those additional two days we had to weigh up against the additional certainty that it gives that we’re less likely to have to return to level 4 down the track. And so, therefore, we get the greatest gains at the lowest cost by making the decision that we have. Media: Are business days relevant, though, in this setting, because, for example, online services, they’re not going to just be nine-to-five closing. So isn’t it actually wider? Isn’t it actually a week that businesses aren’t trading, as opposed to two days? PM: Yeah, and, of course, keeping in mind then, equally, from that online setting, people can start placing their orders now. The point at which businesses are filling those orders, obviously, we’re waiting for them to resume activity next week. That doesn’t stop New Zealanders from being able to engage in online commerce, and then, down the track, those orders being filled. But it does make a difference to us in the long term. We didn’t take lightly the decision. An extra two business days, or waiting till next week, we know that’s a big ask, and we didn’t take it lightly. But because it gives us an extra certainty and reduces the likelihood that we will go back to level 4, we believed that that was a sacrifice worth making. Media: It doesn’t preclude us from going back to level 4 though, does it? PM: No. And what precludes us going backwards is sticking with the rules as we go. And that’s why we’ll keep reinforcing: we remain in lockdown. At alert level 3, we continue to need vigilance—more so than ever—because that’s when we’ll have more people in contact with one another. But New Zealanders have proven themselves and they have done so in an incredible way. And so I have faith that we will keep doing that. Media: But do you not trust New Zealanders to be responsible enough to move into level 3? Because as you’ve said, repeatedly, it’s not that different from level 4, so do you not trust New Zealanders— PM: Socially it’s not—socially, level 3 is not much different to level 4, but economically it’s quite different. We have much more economic activity going back at level 3 than we have now. So it is a big change, and that’s why we need vigilance in every other part of people’s lives. Media: What’s enforcement going to look like, particularly with the ramp-up of business activity, people being able to go out into their shops or warehouses? How is, actually, that going to be monitored to make sure that that is all being done safely? And are you moving, I suppose, to a level of higher trust? PM: Yeah. Level 3 does come with higher trust and high expectations of New Zealanders not to lose that trust. We will still have police, of course, acting as enforcers. It will be very obvious if we have congregation in recreational areas. It will be very obvious if we have movement that really outstrips what we would expect for the kind of commerce we’ll be engaging in. So people will still be asked questions when they’re moving around. We will still have the police undertaking that job. But there is more trust at alert level 3. Media: And I suppose, in the business thing, it’s not so obvious necessarily. You know, there might be companies going back and you don’t really know what’s going inside. Again, are you just trusting people to do the right thing? PM: And look, there’s a lot of that at alert level 3, and there will be in preparation. But, of course, what we’ve heard is that in order for people to get started, some of them, just on their own, need access to their premises, so our view was that could be done safely and that we have faith in our operators to do that. But this is not an invitation to trade, to open, to restart; it is only an invitation to prepare. Media: Do you have leeway to further extend level 4 if there is a significant development in the next week, and what conditions would that be? PM: Yeah. I’ll also hand over to Dr Bloomfield to also add here, but our results in the last week have been fairly consistent. You’ll have seen today we’ve narrowed down only to, you know, one case where we’re undertaking a bit more further investigation from what we had today. With those numbers that’s given us the confidence to move. Over the next week, we expect further confidence again. And so I’m not expecting any surprises, particularly because of the proactive testing that’s been under way. Dr Bloomfield, though. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. Just one thing to add to that, Prime Minister. And one of the things about being in the lockdown sort of situation is even the cases that are coming through, and a number of the more recent ones, in recent days, have actually been people who were infected, it seems, and had symptoms before we even went into lockdown, and they have had residual symptoms, have now been tested, and are positive. But actually they have been within a bubble, and so the risk of further transmission is very, very low. And we’ve seen that reflected in the number of contacts for each case that is coming through, and our ability, very quickly, to identify, for the vast majority of them, what the source of their infection was. Media: What’s your plan to restart Parliament? PM: That’s something that the Business Committee has been discussing. My preference is, even though I know some of their draft plans, my preference is to still leave parliamentary business for the Business Committee to announce. What you will have already heard me say is that Cabinet will mirror what it is that Parliament and that committee determines. You saw some insights into how they may choose to organise themselves, so the Speaker has already worked through what social distancing in the debating chamber looks like, how Parliament could operate with reduced attendance, and we, likewise, have mirrored that in working through the way that Cabinet and Cabinet committees. My intention is that Cabinet committees will resume under alert level 3, but we will use a mixture of face to face and distance, so that we can apply the same expectations we’re putting across every workplace here in the Beehive. Media: The finance Minister said last week that schools would have at least a week after the move down to level 3 before they would have to reopen. You seem to be giving them only two days by your proposal. PM: No, so I think the intention has always been notice. We absolutely expect that there’s a need for preparation and planning, and that’s why you heard me speak today about giving access to schools, schools being able to, for instance, do any cleaning, do any movement of equipment within school grounds, do any maintenance work, and also that teacher-only day we’re being specific about for Tuesday of next week. For some schools it may take some time thereafter. We’re allowing, of course, the Ministry of Education to continue to work with the education sector, but we absolutely accept we do need to give notice, we do need to give time, and there does need to be preparation. Media: The Early Childhood Council and a petition with 35,000 signatures from teachers both urge you to keep all ECEs and schools closed at level 3 because they won’t be safe. What’s made you determine that they are safe? PM: I’ll hand that to the Director-General. We’re acting on his advice in the way we’re operating within schools. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. So this is one of the settings we looked very carefully at the international evidence, and the experience both in New Zealand and overseas with COVID-19 over the last few months shows that COVID-19 doesn’t infect or affect children and teens in the same way as it does adults. So children and teens tend to have low infection rates, and they don’t become as unwell if they do get infected, and they don’t tend to pass the virus on to adults. So there are two key public health principles here. One is, first, minimising the risk that someone gets infected in the first place in level 3—hence maintaining the physical distancing and the strict measures in a whole range of settings—and secondly, of course, limiting the number of people or possible contacts that people have if they do get infected, to make it easier to prevent any further spread. So, again, we had a look at alert level 3 approach in the ECE or school-based environment, and the advice and the approach is expressly designed to limit potential contacts that children and staff members and, therefore, families might have to someone who may be infected. So we’re very confident that it’s possible in alert level 3 to open up ECE and primary schools, especially with that—primary and middle schools—especially with that notice, so they can prepare ahead. PM: Keeping in mind, of course, our underlying principle at alert level 3 is still that people work from home if they can and learn from home if they can. We want as many children and as many adults, if they’re able to be, still at home. This is in those scenarios where that’s not possible, so we are not expecting large numbers to be in attendance. The second point to make is that, overall, at alert level 3, we’re still expecting about an extra 400,000 New Zealanders to re-enter a workplace. We have a responsibility, be they people who are working in construction, be they people in manufacturing, or be they people in education, to do that as safely as possible, and that has been top of our mind when we’ve been designing the guidance and the decision around alert level 3. Media: When you say it’s only two business days, what do you say to the hospitality sector, who are losing another weekend and that’s already a sector that’s— PM: Do you know what? My message to hospitality is that, actually, the best thing that we can do for them is to get back to normal life as soon as possible, and what we’ve traded here is that by staying in that extra bit of time, that gives us greater certainty that we can keep moving in the right direction. That’s what hospitality needs, and I can tell you as the Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage, that is at the fore of my mind as well. Media: Prime Minister, with schools, in terms of certainty for parents wanting a date, would you look at easing that message at all in level 3 and saying, “You’re welcome to come back to school now if you want to.”, or will parents have to wait till level 2 to be able to properly send their children back to school? PM: No. At this point, alert level 3 is alert level 3, and that guidance will remain the same throughout. Obviously, we’ve said that we will be revising it after two weeks. That’s an acknowledgment that alert level 3 is still a very restrictive place to be, and for many people it won’t feel a lot different to where we are now. It does open up, though, more parts of the economy, and that is a significant difference. Media: Will it be up to schools to vet and decide which kids need to be back at school, or are you leaving that up to parents’ good natures? PM: Yeah. That is not a burden we wish to put on schools. When we said voluntary, of course, that was an indication to parents. We are asking them if they can keep their children at home to do so. It would be too much of a burden to ask schools to vet and make decisions about the personal needs of the families in their parent communities, so we are not asking them to do that, but we are asking parents to remember that the guidance is: if you can keep your children at home, you should keep them at home. Media: On this two-week period, when will that decision be made on whether to move out of level 3 or not? Because that’s a Monday. That could be Cabinet for that day, or— PM: Yes, we’re making it on the 11th . Media: Right, so there won’t be any lead-in time; it could be that night? PM: We’re making it on the 11th . Media: Prime Minister, did you consider dropping the alert level for some regions on the Wednesday immediately—for example, Te Tai Rāwhiti, who rely heavily on forestry and would benefit economically significantly with those extra days but also have very few cases and are one of the safer regions? Did you consider dropping regions like that? PM: Yeah. One of the safer regions but also one that I know is very much on board with our goal to eliminate COVID. Yes, we did consider a regional approach, and that is not something that we have ruled out in the future, but our view now was that on the data and the analysis and the modelling we had, we were best at this point to stick together as a nation. One of the things that has also struck me—and perhaps Dr Bloomfield might like to comment on this as well—is some of the cases we’ve had, in their history prior to lockdown, there has been a lot of movement around the country. We are a people who move between our regions, and so that’s been top of our mind when we’ve been thinking about the approach we take. A case might emerge in one part of the country, but it might have come from somewhere else. Is there anything you want to add on that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, just to pick up on that point, Prime Minister. So we were, both the Prime Minister and I were worried about one of the cases reported today, which is in Northland. As it transpires, this is one of those cases where it was travel to Auckland— actually, before the lockdown—that was where the likely source of infection was, which is reassuring. But this is, I think, one of the important features, again, of level 3, is to stop that travel between regions, except where it’s necessary to keep the flow of goods going. PM: I think important to also add on that Northland case, I think, might have picked it up in March. So for anyone who has concerns about then the wider community, that’s essentially less likely, because of that transmission date, but it proves a point. Media: Prime Minister, was Cabinet unanimous in today’s decision? PM: There was consensus. There were a range of views shared, but there was consensus around this decision. Media: What level will domestic flights and stuff start going back to normal? PM: So, essentially, alert level 3 maintains the same expectations around domestic flights, and so it’s only once you get further down the alert levels that you start seeing different provisions for domestic aviation. Media: To what extent did New Zealand’s contact-tracing capabilities factor into Cabinet’s decision? PM: Our contact-tracing abilities? Media: Yeah. PM: As I said yesterday, we had to factor in a whole range of issues around our systems and processes, and I outlined, in the beginning, our current take on how they’re operating. You’ll see, from announcements we’re making today, we continue to put additional resource into continuing to scale up our contact tracing, which has happened over the last four weeks. We’ve put in an additional $15 million already. We’ve scaled up the FTE capacity considerably. We’re putting capacity to do that even further again, with surge capacity up to 300 FTEs, and an additional $55 million put aside for us to continue to build a gold standard contact-tracing system, the likes of which New Zealand has never seen before. Media: Maybe for Dr Bloomfield: how many contacts do we have the ability to trace per day right now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Right now, with our national contact tracing centre, we can trace up to 5,000— PM: Calls per day. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. Contacts per day. Media: And you’re confident that’s enough if we did, you know, heaven forbid, things got out of control down the line? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We’re going to continue to build our capacity. What we want to be able to do is to be able to scale up rapidly, even more if we need to. Having that all on a single electronic and linked platform across the country will enable that to happen. It means we can link in our public health units to our nationally based people, and we can also, like Healthline does, even use people doing those calls who are actually based at home and working off an electronic platform. Media: Did the doubling of the community transmission from 2 percent to 4 percent—was that a factor in your recommendation to Cabinet to stay in level 4? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Actually, the cases ascribed to, or concluded to be, community transmission has continued to drop, especially over these last three weeks. PM: So you’ll hear every day we’ve been talking in a little bit more detail around the cases that we’re still trying to locate their connection, and at the moment, in the last two weeks, we’ve talked about a total—or sorry, 1 April, it’s been a total of 9 cases. So, incredibly low and confidence around the way those cases have been dealt with. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can you please give us a little bit more detail about Dr Verrall’s findings about contact tracing and where that—I suppose, what confidence or not that that gave you. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, I think, in summary—and the report will be made available so you can read it for yourself—I think Dr Verrall was complimentary about the work that was being done. She was confident that the direction of travel was good, that the model that was being implemented was good, and she gave some recommendations about how that could be further strengthened, including—and her very first recommendation was investment in the public health units, and this is what the Prime Minister has just alluded to, is this further investment in public health units. And she also proposed a suite of indicators whereby we might measure performance as this evolves into a national service, so that we would know we were not just delivering contact tracing but that we were delivering it in a way that was going to actually support our efforts to stamp out COVID-19. Media: Did she identify any weaknesses or gaps that would really be a cause for concern as we move into level 3 and then, potentially, level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I would say that she identified that the need to move the system from a local, very manual process to a national and electronic one was what was needed to address, you know, what you might call a range of small gaps and areas for improvement. So you will see that, I think, when you see the report. PM: And that will be going out very shortly, I think, is my understanding. Media: Prime Minister, the Government has had to nationalise PPE distribution, it’s had to nationalise contact tracing—how much has this changed your mind around whether DHBs are too siloed, too localised? PM: Yeah. Look, I think it’s fair to say that it has given me insights into the parts of the health system that otherwise, frankly, are under-appreciated. And I have to say that there’s a flip side. It’s not just that we’ve seen, actually, where there may be greater benefit to a bit more coordination, but, equally, there would be greater benefit for us all recognising the parts of the health system that do an incredible job day in, day out and that we may not always see. So it’s had that dual effect for me. The Heather Simpson report, obviously, asks and answers some of those questions. We decided, of course, that we wanted to allow ourselves the time and the space to deal with the pandemic we have in front of us before considering some larger, wider-scale health system reforms. I think that’s the right decision. I don’t think it would be right to plough into that when we’re right in the middle of managing a global pandemic. Media: How much of a sway did your trust in New Zealanders not to leave their bubbles this Anzac weekend play in making this decision? PM: I actually hope what you’ve heard me express is a high degree of trust and confidence in New Zealanders, and that’s comparative to, actually, to other parts of the world, where if you look at that Google tracking and some of the analysis out there, and our results, they’ve all been achieved because of the actions of New Zealanders. So when I read out those results, yes, our front-line health workers, our public health workers, our testing has all played a role, but so have New Zealanders, and so that’s why I have trust and confidence. Media: But breaches did go up over the Easter long weekend, so you would’ve expected that there would’ve been a flare-up or, perhaps, additional spread over Anzac? PM: But additionally, what I think we also need to take into account is the length of time people have also been in lockdown, and I think that plays a role, not just what might otherwise be public holidays. So actually, our thinking here, as I’ve said, was that for that small additional bit of time, we get huge gains from a health perspective, and in the longer term and economic perspective, if we don’t have to go back to lockdown. Media: Just on the healthcare system. Is it accurate to, I guess, frame it as, sort of, first-world healthcare but a third-world system for delivering it—is that an accurate reflection? Has it taken this, an epidemic, to actually acknowledge how bad the system is? PM: I think that’s crude, and I think that does a disservice to, actually, to our workforce as well, who’s not just working within the system but have helped build responses quickly and effectively. So, look, yes, you’ve asked some questions about centralisation and decentralisation, but keep in mind, even for our contact tracing, we need people on the ground with local knowledge, who know their local community, and that is particularly important for public health. So yes, we want greater national support of that, but we must always keep that local knowledge and expertise as well. So I don’t want to get too far ahead of ourselves here. There’s more work to be done, and we’ve always said our health system needs to be rebuilt, but I’m not going to rebuild it in the middle of a pandemic. Media: But are we behind countries like Australia when it comes to that nationalised approach? I mean, are we, basically, having to speed up? PM: I’ll again let Dr Bloomfield’s facial expressions answer that question. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, I think we just have a different system from Australia, recalling that they have the Commonwealth and the state system. So in my discussions with counterparts in Australia, they often look with envy to New Zealand, in particular the fact that our primary care is much more integrated at a local level, so we have much better integration between primary and secondary care, and the opportunities afforded by our local alliances and similar arrangements. I think that Australia looks to us with envy— probably, I think, both do, and we also look further afield just to learn from each other’s systems and try and take the best of each other’s. Media: In terms of what you’ve said, though, previously, we’ve had to create a national system, haven’t we? So we haven’t had one, have we? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: This is very specific to our public health services. So we have our 12 public health units around the country. Some look after the public health function for more than one district health board, and whilst there is a national component to that, for example, we contract directly from the ministry with those public health units and the medical officers of health are designated by myself, there is still—a bit like our district health boards, they do tend to be contained within their region and deliver services for their region. What this has shown is that there is both a need and value in having that local and regional capability and capacity linked much more and integrated much more strongly at a national level. PM: I do think it’s important to recognise that until, you know, really, the beginning of the year, these services were used for TB, measles, you know, on a relatively infrequent basis—to then, suddenly, have to scale up for a service that could operate nationally in a global pandemic. So, yes, there has been areas where we’ve needed to boost resource, capability, build a national system of collating information across regions. We’ve had to do that very, very quickly, and that has meant there’s been more work to do. But when you think about what we usually have to do with these services and the additional layer that we’ve asked them to contend with, their response has been incredible. There is more to do, though, and we’re all very, very open about that. Media: Prime Minister, just on the elimination target, you say this doesn’t mean zero cases. Does this mean you’re prepared, or, at least, expecting, to have the virus in the country until there’s a vaccine? PM: Look, I do, again, think there’s a big difference between the notion of just suppression, where you accept, almost, the existence of COVID-19, and New Zealand’s strategy, which has been this ongoing campaign of elimination. But, of course, the reason I wanted to give that explanation is when you hear the word elimination, you think “gone for ever”. And I don’t want New Zealanders to think that when they see a case, that means we failed; it doesn’t. It means zero tolerance. So every time we see a case, we basically pounce on it. We do everything we can, then, to shut it down and to eliminate it when it arises, and we will have to keep doing that on an ongoing basis—and, yes, until a vaccine arises. Media: Can I return to the question of the regions. I think there’s so few cases now—I think 14 in the last four days. There are going to be regions in New Zealand that haven’t had a case in a week or so. And you’re going to have cries from those regions to re-open or go to level 2. Are you open to doing that, or is that just a closed shop until 11 May? PM: No, the decision we’ve made today is for all of New Zealand. We haven’t ruled out in the future circumstances where we may take on regional variation, but we haven’t adopted it in this instance. Media: Prime Minister, a couple for other newsrooms, if that’s all right—firstly, our sports department: at what alert level are contact sports likely to be able to resume training again? PM: Yeah. We’re doing further work at the moment—that is primarily applicable to alert level 2. Media: OK, and Australia’s forcing tech giants like Google and Facebook to pay local media companies for their content. Will you follow suit? PM: To pay local media companies for their content—I haven’t seen that announcement; I’ll look in a little more detail. I would, again, remind—just give the example, though, in recent times, our COVID-19 advertising campaign has predominantly gone through and had the biggest proportion of spend with our mainstream media rather than alternates like Facebook and online services. Media: Given that Facebook is sharing local media content, though, and it’s picking up a big share of that advertising revenue, should those tech giants be paying a kind of dividend of that— PM: Of course, we’ve had the debate about digital services taxation—that’s something we consulted on; it’s not something we’ve made any decisions on. But you will remember that as a Government, this is a question that we have asked the public and sought their feedback. Media: Prime Minister, in a week’s time, we go to level 3, what will you be looking for in that two weeks at level 3—what sort of indicators will you be looking for to enable you to go to level 2? PM: Again, New Zealanders will be looking at the same things we will be. Again, what’s happening with our case numbers, what those case numbers tell us—the story that they tell us about transmission, and where they’re happening. So, again, we’ll be sharing that data in real time. And, also, we’ll continue to be looking at keeping our testing up, keeping that positivity rate low—so for a big number of tests, just a small number of positives—and making sure we get that good geographic spread. Media: Where would those case— PM: Dr Bloomfield, would you like to share your— Media: Yeah, where would those case numbers need to be? PM: I’ll just let Dr Bloomfield just add, as well. Bloomfield: So I think those are the main features. We’ll be wanting, on a daily basis, as we have been doing, to really understand, if we’re getting cases, where they are and how we got them, and then, as the Prime Minister said, you know, that really strong “stamp it out” posture. So that will be really critical to giving us confidence that the level 3 measures are working. And I think, also—and the Prime Minister’s alluded to this—we need to be even more vigilant in level 3 than in level 4, because we don’t have the protection of the full lockdown scenario, and so we’ll be wanting to see that New Zealanders are maintaining those really critical behaviours that will help protect us and help keep those chains of transmission broken, really, and that is particularly around physical distancing, so that will, I think, be critical also to our advice about whether or not to move further beyond alert level 3. PM: I’m aware that many of you have deadlines for filing, so I’ll just take two more questions, if I may. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the NHI—what proportion of New Zealanders does it have up-to-date contact details for, and is it enough? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Very high now, I would—I won’t guess, other than to say it’s well over 95 percent, and the reason for that is we now have a national electronic enrolment service through our primary care, and one of our best ways to get up-to-date contact details for people is when they enrol through their general practitioner with the PHO. And that is updated—a file is sent—every month into the Ministry of Health and the information, any updates, on address information goes into the NHI at that time, so it’s very contemporary. Media: Did Cabinet do exactly what you asked them to today? Did Cabinet do exactly what you recommended, or was it not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’ll have to defer to the Prime Minister on that? PM: Dr Bloomfield wasn’t part of the Cabinet decision, but I can tell you, in writing, he gave us the advice that we do exactly what we have announced today. Media: Prime Minister, there are some concerns from principals and teachers that, at level 3, “work from home if you can” means that those who can’t are more likely blue-collar workers, they will have to send their children to ECE, to schools. What is your message to those principals and teachers? PM: Sorry, you’ll have to explain to me what the difference is therefore? Media: That they will have to send their kids to school? PM: Yes. I mean, ultimately, we are asking parents who can work from home to work from home, and yes there will be certain types, then, of workforces that are more able to work from home that can’t. But I think we also need to keep in mind that there have been hundreds of thousands of New Zealanders who are in our essential workforces, including people who are delivering our goods and services and people who are sitting on the checkouts at supermarkets, who have continued to work for us, and now they will be joined by others. I consider, therefore, our teachers part of that critical workforce, and I do believe that we can, of course, focus on their health and safety as well, as well the children, which should be a smaller number than what they are used to, to be able to create bubbles of safety within a schooling environment to the best of our ability. Media: Because you’ve extended the lockdown, and therefore the amount of time that businesses, some businesses, will have no cashflow, will you extend the wage subsidy scheme? PM: No. Keeping in mind the wage subsidy scheme was for a 12 week period, which of course is well beyond what our alert level 4, and even— Media: So that’ll be no? PM: No, so alert level 4 obviously has gone for four weeks, and then we’ll be going through to those additional few days, and then even with the extra two of level 3, that’s still well below the 12 weeks’ worth which the wage subsidy was the value of. Media: Just in terms of your remarks yesterday about public attitudes being part of the consideration, what actually got brought to the Cabinet table around that? I mean, have you effectively been doing, sort of, Zoom focus groups and polling around this? How do you weigh that? PM: Oh, and that’s a very good question. That’s very difficult, but one of the things that you look for, of course, is the level of compliance, that obviously if people are feeling like they’ve been asked to do something that is in keeping with what’s required to protect New Zealand, then you’re more likely to see that compliance. And I think what you can see from the data we do have, from things like Google tracking, for instance, that they’ve made publicly available, is that New Zealanders’ compliance has been really high, and I take that as a sign that they can see the value of what we’re doing. You only have to look overseas to see why this is so important. OK, thank you everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Tēnā koutou katoa. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou. Over the past few weeks, I’ve often used my time at this podium to acknowledge the people on the front line. Today I want to remember the people in New Zealand who have lost someone to COVID-19, or the many more who had the terror of almost losing someone. Throughout this pandemic there have been individuals who I have tracked the progress of. I didn’t know their names, but I knew their status, and I still get a phone call for every individual person that we lose to COVID-19 in New Zealand. We may be amongst a small number of countries where that is still able to happen, where the numbers we have lost have been small. But we cannot forget that every number is someone’s father, someone’s mum, a relative, or a friend, and someone that we have all been united in an effort to protect and to save. And that is why we, as a country, took on the challenge of staring down COVID-19, because we believe that decisive action, going hard and going early, gave us the very best chance of stamping out the virus—and it has. We have done what very few countries have been able to do. We have stopped a wave of devastation. Our transmission rate—that is, the number of cases that each person with the virus passes it on to—is now 0.48, less than half a person each. Overseas, the average is 2.5 people. We have amongst the lowest number of confirmed cases per 100,000 people in the world. We have a relatively low proportion of serious cases and, according to the Oxford University Coronavirus Government Response Tracker, one of the lowest mortality rates in the world. Nearly every case identified since April 1 is primarily as a result of overseas travel, or contact with someone with the virus, and often in existing clusters. The number of individual cases that we don’t have an obvious connection in that period now stands at only eight. Our testing has scaled up and we have now tested over 85,000 New Zealanders, one of the highest testing rates per capita in the world. In the last few days, we expanded testing to include random testing in Queenstown, the Waikato, Canterbury, and Auckland. We have tested over a thousand people this way and so far have produced not a single positive result. The Director-General of Health is confident that there is currently no widespread undetected community transmission in New Zealand. In short, the effort of our team of 5 million has broken the chain of transmission and taken a quantum leap forward in our goal to eliminate the virus. Elimination doesn’t mean zero cases; it means zero tolerance for cases. It means when a case emerges—and it will—we test, we contact trace, we isolate, and we do that every single time with the ambition that when we see COVID, we eliminate it. That is how we will keep our transmission rate under 1, and it is how we will keep succeeding—and we have seen success. You—all of you—have stopped the uncontrolled explosion of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and I couldn’t feel prouder of the start that we have made together. But I also feel a huge responsibility to ensure that we do not lose any of the gains that we have made either. On that basis, New Zealand will move out of alert level 4 lockdown at 11.59 p.m. on Monday April 27, one week from today. We will then hold at alert level 3 for two weeks, before reviewing how we are tracking again, and making further decisions at Cabinet on 11 May. In making this decision, Cabinet discussed in depth all of the data we have shared with all of you daily. We looked at the gains we have made in our results, but also our systems. We considered that the longer we are in lockdown, the less likely it is we will need to go back. We also considered moving alert levels on 23 April, which is in just 48 hours’ time. The sacrifice made to date has been huge, and Cabinet wanted to make sure we lock in our gains and give ourselves some additional certainty. Waiting to move alert levels next week costs us just two more business days but gives us much greater long-term health and economic returns down the track. It means we are less likely to have to go backwards. Ultimately, we have taken a balanced approach and one that the Director-General of Health not only supported, but also recommended. This time we now have will be used to prepare, on all fronts. This week, businesses will be allowed to get ready to open—such as employers re-entering premises to receive stock if necessary—but we ask that, in doing so, they stick to social distancing and their bubbles. This is not an early move out of alerts; it is merely a matter of preparation. Same principle applies for preparing schools and the education system. Schools and early learning centres can be accessed this week for cleaning, maintenance, and any other preparations. The current plan is for schools to be able to reopen for a teacher-only day on 28 April as part of their preparation, and we expect those who need to attend to be able to from 29 April. I do want to caution, it may take a bit longer for some schools and early learning centres to be ready, and the Minister of Education will continue to work alongside the education sector in those preparations. And from a health perspective, this week testing will continue, including giving ongoing public confidence that we are reaching isolated, rural, Maōri, and Pacific communities. Contact tracing will be bolstered even further, and we’ll continue to use the best evidence, advice, and modelling we have to make daily decisions to serve New Zealanders. The most important thing to remember in the meantime, though, is that all of this preparation takes us to an alert level in one week’s time—a recovery room of sorts—that has many restrictions. Yes, alert level 3 allows more economic activity like construction, manufacturing, and forestry, but it does not allow more social activity—and for good reason. If we want to make sure that we are a health success story and ensure our economy can start to operate again without the virus taking off, we need to get this next phase right. The worst thing we can do for our country is to yo-yo between levels, with all of the uncertainty that this will bring. We need to move with confidence, and that does mean following the rules. So here is a reminder of the principles for level 3 when we get there. One: stay home. If you are not at work, school, exercising, or getting essentials, then you must be at home—the same as alert level 4. Two: work and learn from home if you can. We still want the vast majority of people working from home and children and young people learning from home. At-risk students and staff should also stay at home, and they will be supported to do so. Early learning centres and schools will physically be open for up to year 10 families that need them. Three: make your business COVID-19 safe. COVID-19 has spread in workplaces, so the quid pro quo of being able to open is doing it in a way that doesn’t spread the virus. Important industries like construction, manufacturing, forestry will be open, as will retail as long as it is contactless. Four: stay regional. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Activities must be safe, keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your bubble, and make minimal trips. Five: keep your bubble as small as possible. If you need to, at level 3 you can expand your bubble a small amount to bring in close family, isolated people, or caregivers. Six: wash your hands often with soap, then dry them. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. And seven:—and this is a really important one—if you’re sick, stay at home, get advice from the GP or Healthline about getting a test, and quickly. I cannot emphasise this enough. All of our success in contact tracing and isolation relies on knowing as soon as we can when you are unwell. There is no stigma to COVID-19. We will only be successful if everyone is willing to play their part in finding it wherever it is. These rules will be so important. We all want to continue to progress down the levels. The best hope of getting back to normal as soon as possible is never getting ahead of where we are right now. So to recap to anyone just tuning in, we are currently in lockdown and are staying there for the next week. From Tuesday morning 28 April, we will move to level 3 and stay there for two weeks. Those two weeks gives us another cycle of transmission to assess how we are doing. From there, we will move if we can and if we’re ready, but only when we’re ready and only when it’s safe. And so this weekend—ANZAC weekend—enjoy the company of your bubble, stay local, reflect on the amazing sacrifices of our forebears. Decades ago they came together in the most testing of circumstances, half a world away, and helped forge who we are today. It was a very, very different battle than the one we are in now, but the character of who we are as a country remains exactly the same. So please, stay strong, stay home, be kind, and let’s finish what we started. I’ll now hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. I just want to comment briefly today on the work over recent weeks on testing and contact tracing, given the significance of both of these for supporting our move to level 3. These are two areas of the public health response that we have scaled significantly over the last two months. Early on, we worked hard to ensure New Zealand implemented its own testing capability, and we have scaled that up significantly week on week, while improving our supply lines for testing kits. This has supported our high testing rates that the Prime Minister referred to, and these are now amongst the highest in the world. In the coming weeks we will continue to focus on testing people with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 and hunting out any undetected cases that might exist. We will continue to undertake community and other sentinel testing as part of our ongoing surveillance. We will also be stepping up our testing on asymptomatic workers in facilities where there have been recent cases, including in healthcare settings, essential businesses, and tourist industry groups, and also proactively testing contacts of new cases where indicated, regardless of symptoms. This will include household, workplace, and social contacts. Equally, contact tracing was one of the first things that we started to scale up, including creating a national service with more than 200 staff who have had the sole focus of tracking down close contacts of confirmed and probable cases. Essentially, what we are doing here is transforming what was a very local, manual process into a national, automated system with scale. This is the first time this has been done in New Zealand, and I am proud of what the team has achieved over the last month. To ensure we are heading in the right direction, I asked Dr Ayesha Verrall to come in and independently review our approach. Dr Verrall has provided a report with very constructive feedback and guidance on how to further build our contact tracing capability and capacity to ensure it achieves our aspiration of gold standard. Her report is being publicly released this afternoon, now that it has been considered by Cabinet, and I will continue to update you on progress with implementing the recommendations. A number of those recommendations have already been put in place or responded to, and work continues apace on the others. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM: All right. Thank you. Happy to take questions. Media: What do you say to someone sitting at home watching this who’s done a hard slog for four weeks and is now being asked to do a whole other week? Haven’t we made it? Haven’t we got across the line? PM: My message to New Zealanders is you have sacrificed too much for us to lose those gains now. Let’s lock them in, make sure we do everything we can not to go backwards, and keep moving forward successfully. Media: Do you appreciate the big ask— PM: Yes I do. Media: —because, I mean, things like funerals, for example, no exceptions there? PM: No. No changes there. Actually, just as I came down, I was shown an email from someone who had lost a loved one who said that they were one of the families who have been affected by the funeral arrangements, but to reinforce not to change them. Now that to me is the extraordinary courage of New Zealanders who, in spite of feeling so acutely the sacrifices that they’re making, believe in the mission that we have together, and that’s the kind of message that reminds me that we are doing the right thing together. Media: And when weighing up the sacrifices for either decision, how hard was this decision to make? PM: Every point along the way, we are having to, of course, make sure that we are looking at the health impacts and also the economic impacts. But, thankfully for New Zealanders, both point to the same path: fight the virus, save lives, and save livelihoods. So this decision has really fallen into place based on all of the evidence, the modelling, the research, and the advice. And we have agreed with the recommendation from the Director-General of Health. Media: And in the lead-up, did you think that we were actually going to move out of lockdown this week? Was that where your head was at last week? PM: My view is I’ve always been willing to wait for the latest information and data we have to give us the best modelling we can and the best advice we can. So we only started considering that over the weekend when we had that information all in front of us so we could do it in real time. So New Zealanders have had the same data we have. Media: How great is the risk that people will get too relaxed now? Because here we are pushing them that extra week, aren’t we pushing them kind of to the brink of lockdown? So how concerned are you that they will get relaxed and stop being compliant? PM: I don’t think New Zealanders want to waste all the effort that they’ve put in already. And also, all of the evidence I’ve seen to date shows that New Zealanders have done an exceptional job, by and large, of sticking with what has been an extraordinary ask. Compared to the rest of the world, we’ve done something that I think is incredible. Media: You’ve said that we’ll lose two business days over the course of the week— PM: That’s relative to the decision of when the four weeks—yep. Media: Sure. Sure. What kind of assessment was that in terms of the economic impact, the impact on businesses? And have you had any response from business about that time frame? PM: And so the economic impact of those additional two days we had to weigh up against the additional certainty that it gives that we’re less likely to have to return to level 4 down the track. And so, therefore, we get the greatest gains at the lowest cost by making the decision that we have. Media: Are business days relevant, though, in this setting, because, for example, online services, they’re not going to just be nine-to-five closing. So isn’t it actually wider? Isn’t it actually a week that businesses aren’t trading, as opposed to two days? PM: Yeah, and, of course, keeping in mind then, equally, from that online setting, people can start placing their orders now. The point at which businesses are filling those orders, obviously, we’re waiting for them to resume activity next week. That doesn’t stop New Zealanders from being able to engage in online commerce, and then, down the track, those orders being filled. But it does make a difference to us in the long term. We didn’t take lightly the decision. An extra two business days, or waiting till next week, we know that’s a big ask, and we didn’t take it lightly. But because it gives us an extra certainty and reduces the likelihood that we will go back to level 4, we believed that that was a sacrifice worth making. Media: It doesn’t preclude us from going back to level 4 though, does it? PM: No. And what precludes us going backwards is sticking with the rules as we go. And that’s why we’ll keep reinforcing: we remain in lockdown. At alert level 3, we continue to need vigilance—more so than ever—because that’s when we’ll have more people in contact with one another. But New Zealanders have proven themselves and they have done so in an incredible way. And so I have faith that we will keep doing that. Media: But do you not trust New Zealanders to be responsible enough to move into level 3? Because as you’ve said, repeatedly, it’s not that different from level 4, so do you not trust New Zealanders— PM: Socially it’s not—socially, level 3 is not much different to level 4, but economically it’s quite different. We have much more economic activity going back at level 3 than we have now. So it is a big change, and that’s why we need vigilance in every other part of people’s lives. Media: What’s enforcement going to look like, particularly with the ramp-up of business activity, people being able to go out into their shops or warehouses? How is, actually, that going to be monitored to make sure that that is all being done safely? And are you moving, I suppose, to a level of higher trust? PM: Yeah. Level 3 does come with higher trust and high expectations of New Zealanders not to lose that trust. We will still have police, of course, acting as enforcers. It will be very obvious if we have congregation in recreational areas. It will be very obvious if we have movement that really outstrips what we would expect for the kind of commerce we’ll be engaging in. So people will still be asked questions when they’re moving around. We will still have the police undertaking that job. But there is more trust at alert level 3. Media: And I suppose, in the business thing, it’s not so obvious necessarily. You know, there might be companies going back and you don’t really know what’s going inside. Again, are you just trusting people to do the right thing? PM: And look, there’s a lot of that at alert level 3, and there will be in preparation. But, of course, what we’ve heard is that in order for people to get started, some of them, just on their own, need access to their premises, so our view was that could be done safely and that we have faith in our operators to do that. But this is not an invitation to trade, to open, to restart; it is only an invitation to prepare. Media: Do you have leeway to further extend level 4 if there is a significant development in the next week, and what conditions would that be? PM: Yeah. I’ll also hand over to Dr Bloomfield to also add here, but our results in the last week have been fairly consistent. You’ll have seen today we’ve narrowed down only to, you know, one case where we’re undertaking a bit more further investigation from what we had today. With those numbers that’s given us the confidence to move. Over the next week, we expect further confidence again. And so I’m not expecting any surprises, particularly because of the proactive testing that’s been under way. Dr Bloomfield, though. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. Just one thing to add to that, Prime Minister. And one of the things about being in the lockdown sort of situation is even the cases that are coming through, and a number of the more recent ones, in recent days, have actually been people who were infected, it seems, and had symptoms before we even went into lockdown, and they have had residual symptoms, have now been tested, and are positive. But actually they have been within a bubble, and so the risk of further transmission is very, very low. And we’ve seen that reflected in the number of contacts for each case that is coming through, and our ability, very quickly, to identify, for the vast majority of them, what the source of their infection was. Media: What’s your plan to restart Parliament? PM: That’s something that the Business Committee has been discussing. My preference is, even though I know some of their draft plans, my preference is to still leave parliamentary business for the Business Committee to announce. What you will have already heard me say is that Cabinet will mirror what it is that Parliament and that committee determines. You saw some insights into how they may choose to organise themselves, so the Speaker has already worked through what social distancing in the debating chamber looks like, how Parliament could operate with reduced attendance, and we, likewise, have mirrored that in working through the way that Cabinet and Cabinet committees. My intention is that Cabinet committees will resume under alert level 3, but we will use a mixture of face to face and distance, so that we can apply the same expectations we’re putting across every workplace here in the Beehive. Media: The finance Minister said last week that schools would have at least a week after the move down to level 3 before they would have to reopen. You seem to be giving them only two days by your proposal. PM: No, so I think the intention has always been notice. We absolutely expect that there’s a need for preparation and planning, and that’s why you heard me speak today about giving access to schools, schools being able to, for instance, do any cleaning, do any movement of equipment within school grounds, do any maintenance work, and also that teacher-only day we’re being specific about for Tuesday of next week. For some schools it may take some time thereafter. We’re allowing, of course, the Ministry of Education to continue to work with the education sector, but we absolutely accept we do need to give notice, we do need to give time, and there does need to be preparation. Media: The Early Childhood Council and a petition with 35,000 signatures from teachers both urge you to keep all ECEs and schools closed at level 3 because they won’t be safe. What’s made you determine that they are safe? PM: I’ll hand that to the Director-General. We’re acting on his advice in the way we’re operating within schools. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. So this is one of the settings we looked very carefully at the international evidence, and the experience both in New Zealand and overseas with COVID-19 over the last few months shows that COVID-19 doesn’t infect or affect children and teens in the same way as it does adults. So children and teens tend to have low infection rates, and they don’t become as unwell if they do get infected, and they don’t tend to pass the virus on to adults. So there are two key public health principles here. One is, first, minimising the risk that someone gets infected in the first place in level 3—hence maintaining the physical distancing and the strict measures in a whole range of settings—and secondly, of course, limiting the number of people or possible contacts that people have if they do get infected, to make it easier to prevent any further spread. So, again, we had a look at alert level 3 approach in the ECE or school-based environment, and the advice and the approach is expressly designed to limit potential contacts that children and staff members and, therefore, families might have to someone who may be infected. So we’re very confident that it’s possible in alert level 3 to open up ECE and primary schools, especially with that—primary and middle schools—especially with that notice, so they can prepare ahead. PM: Keeping in mind, of course, our underlying principle at alert level 3 is still that people work from home if they can and learn from home if they can. We want as many children and as many adults, if they’re able to be, still at home. This is in those scenarios where that’s not possible, so we are not expecting large numbers to be in attendance. The second point to make is that, overall, at alert level 3, we’re still expecting about an extra 400,000 New Zealanders to re-enter a workplace. We have a responsibility, be they people who are working in construction, be they people in manufacturing, or be they people in education, to do that as safely as possible, and that has been top of our mind when we’ve been designing the guidance and the decision around alert level 3. Media: When you say it’s only two business days, what do you say to the hospitality sector, who are losing another weekend and that’s already a sector that’s— PM: Do you know what? My message to hospitality is that, actually, the best thing that we can do for them is to get back to normal life as soon as possible, and what we’ve traded here is that by staying in that extra bit of time, that gives us greater certainty that we can keep moving in the right direction. That’s what hospitality needs, and I can tell you as the Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage, that is at the fore of my mind as well. Media: Prime Minister, with schools, in terms of certainty for parents wanting a date, would you look at easing that message at all in level 3 and saying, “You’re welcome to come back to school now if you want to.”, or will parents have to wait till level 2 to be able to properly send their children back to school? PM: No. At this point, alert level 3 is alert level 3, and that guidance will remain the same throughout. Obviously, we’ve said that we will be revising it after two weeks. That’s an acknowledgment that alert level 3 is still a very restrictive place to be, and for many people it won’t feel a lot different to where we are now. It does open up, though, more parts of the economy, and that is a significant difference. Media: Will it be up to schools to vet and decide which kids need to be back at school, or are you leaving that up to parents’ good natures? PM: Yeah. That is not a burden we wish to put on schools. When we said voluntary, of course, that was an indication to parents. We are asking them if they can keep their children at home to do so. It would be too much of a burden to ask schools to vet and make decisions about the personal needs of the families in their parent communities, so we are not asking them to do that, but we are asking parents to remember that the guidance is: if you can keep your children at home, you should keep them at home. Media: On this two-week period, when will that decision be made on whether to move out of level 3 or not? Because that’s a Monday. That could be Cabinet for that day, or— PM: Yes, we’re making it on the 11th . Media: Right, so there won’t be any lead-in time; it could be that night? PM: We’re making it on the 11th . Media: Prime Minister, did you consider dropping the alert level for some regions on the Wednesday immediately—for example, Te Tai Rāwhiti, who rely heavily on forestry and would benefit economically significantly with those extra days but also have very few cases and are one of the safer regions? Did you consider dropping regions like that? PM: Yeah. One of the safer regions but also one that I know is very much on board with our goal to eliminate COVID. Yes, we did consider a regional approach, and that is not something that we have ruled out in the future, but our view now was that on the data and the analysis and the modelling we had, we were best at this point to stick together as a nation. One of the things that has also struck me—and perhaps Dr Bloomfield might like to comment on this as well—is some of the cases we’ve had, in their history prior to lockdown, there has been a lot of movement around the country. We are a people who move between our regions, and so that’s been top of our mind when we’ve been thinking about the approach we take. A case might emerge in one part of the country, but it might have come from somewhere else. Is there anything you want to add on that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, just to pick up on that point, Prime Minister. So we were, both the Prime Minister and I were worried about one of the cases reported today, which is in Northland. As it transpires, this is one of those cases where it was travel to Auckland— actually, before the lockdown—that was where the likely source of infection was, which is reassuring. But this is, I think, one of the important features, again, of level 3, is to stop that travel between regions, except where it’s necessary to keep the flow of goods going. PM: I think important to also add on that Northland case, I think, might have picked it up in March. So for anyone who has concerns about then the wider community, that’s essentially less likely, because of that transmission date, but it proves a point. Media: Prime Minister, was Cabinet unanimous in today’s decision? PM: There was consensus. There were a range of views shared, but there was consensus around this decision. Media: What level will domestic flights and stuff start going back to normal? PM: So, essentially, alert level 3 maintains the same expectations around domestic flights, and so it’s only once you get further down the alert levels that you start seeing different provisions for domestic aviation. Media: To what extent did New Zealand’s contact-tracing capabilities factor into Cabinet’s decision? PM: Our contact-tracing abilities? Media: Yeah. PM: As I said yesterday, we had to factor in a whole range of issues around our systems and processes, and I outlined, in the beginning, our current take on how they’re operating. You’ll see, from announcements we’re making today, we continue to put additional resource into continuing to scale up our contact tracing, which has happened over the last four weeks. We’ve put in an additional $15 million already. We’ve scaled up the FTE capacity considerably. We’re putting capacity to do that even further again, with surge capacity up to 300 FTEs, and an additional $55 million put aside for us to continue to build a gold standard contact-tracing system, the likes of which New Zealand has never seen before. Media: Maybe for Dr Bloomfield: how many contacts do we have the ability to trace per day right now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Right now, with our national contact tracing centre, we can trace up to 5,000— PM: Calls per day. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. Contacts per day. Media: And you’re confident that’s enough if we did, you know, heaven forbid, things got out of control down the line? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We’re going to continue to build our capacity. What we want to be able to do is to be able to scale up rapidly, even more if we need to. Having that all on a single electronic and linked platform across the country will enable that to happen. It means we can link in our public health units to our nationally based people, and we can also, like Healthline does, even use people doing those calls who are actually based at home and working off an electronic platform. Media: Did the doubling of the community transmission from 2 percent to 4 percent—was that a factor in your recommendation to Cabinet to stay in level 4? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Actually, the cases ascribed to, or concluded to be, community transmission has continued to drop, especially over these last three weeks. PM: So you’ll hear every day we’ve been talking in a little bit more detail around the cases that we’re still trying to locate their connection, and at the moment, in the last two weeks, we’ve talked about a total—or sorry, 1 April, it’s been a total of 9 cases. So, incredibly low and confidence around the way those cases have been dealt with. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can you please give us a little bit more detail about Dr Verrall’s findings about contact tracing and where that—I suppose, what confidence or not that that gave you. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, I think, in summary—and the report will be made available so you can read it for yourself—I think Dr Verrall was complimentary about the work that was being done. She was confident that the direction of travel was good, that the model that was being implemented was good, and she gave some recommendations about how that could be further strengthened, including—and her very first recommendation was investment in the public health units, and this is what the Prime Minister has just alluded to, is this further investment in public health units. And she also proposed a suite of indicators whereby we might measure performance as this evolves into a national service, so that we would know we were not just delivering contact tracing but that we were delivering it in a way that was going to actually support our efforts to stamp out COVID-19. Media: Did she identify any weaknesses or gaps that would really be a cause for concern as we move into level 3 and then, potentially, level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I would say that she identified that the need to move the system from a local, very manual process to a national and electronic one was what was needed to address, you know, what you might call a range of small gaps and areas for improvement. So you will see that, I think, when you see the report. PM: And that will be going out very shortly, I think, is my understanding. Media: Prime Minister, the Government has had to nationalise PPE distribution, it’s had to nationalise contact tracing—how much has this changed your mind around whether DHBs are too siloed, too localised? PM: Yeah. Look, I think it’s fair to say that it has given me insights into the parts of the health system that otherwise, frankly, are under-appreciated. And I have to say that there’s a flip side. It’s not just that we’ve seen, actually, where there may be greater benefit to a bit more coordination, but, equally, there would be greater benefit for us all recognising the parts of the health system that do an incredible job day in, day out and that we may not always see. So it’s had that dual effect for me. The Heather Simpson report, obviously, asks and answers some of those questions. We decided, of course, that we wanted to allow ourselves the time and the space to deal with the pandemic we have in front of us before considering some larger, wider-scale health system reforms. I think that’s the right decision. I don’t think it would be right to plough into that when we’re right in the middle of managing a global pandemic. Media: How much of a sway did your trust in New Zealanders not to leave their bubbles this Anzac weekend play in making this decision? PM: I actually hope what you’ve heard me express is a high degree of trust and confidence in New Zealanders, and that’s comparative to, actually, to other parts of the world, where if you look at that Google tracking and some of the analysis out there, and our results, they’ve all been achieved because of the actions of New Zealanders. So when I read out those results, yes, our front-line health workers, our public health workers, our testing has all played a role, but so have New Zealanders, and so that’s why I have trust and confidence. Media: But breaches did go up over the Easter long weekend, so you would’ve expected that there would’ve been a flare-up or, perhaps, additional spread over Anzac? PM: But additionally, what I think we also need to take into account is the length of time people have also been in lockdown, and I think that plays a role, not just what might otherwise be public holidays. So actually, our thinking here, as I’ve said, was that for that small additional bit of time, we get huge gains from a health perspective, and in the longer term and economic perspective, if we don’t have to go back to lockdown. Media: Just on the healthcare system. Is it accurate to, I guess, frame it as, sort of, first-world healthcare but a third-world system for delivering it—is that an accurate reflection? Has it taken this, an epidemic, to actually acknowledge how bad the system is? PM: I think that’s crude, and I think that does a disservice to, actually, to our workforce as well, who’s not just working within the system but have helped build responses quickly and effectively. So, look, yes, you’ve asked some questions about centralisation and decentralisation, but keep in mind, even for our contact tracing, we need people on the ground with local knowledge, who know their local community, and that is particularly important for public health. So yes, we want greater national support of that, but we must always keep that local knowledge and expertise as well. So I don’t want to get too far ahead of ourselves here. There’s more work to be done, and we’ve always said our health system needs to be rebuilt, but I’m not going to rebuild it in the middle of a pandemic. Media: But are we behind countries like Australia when it comes to that nationalised approach? I mean, are we, basically, having to speed up? PM: I’ll again let Dr Bloomfield’s facial expressions answer that question. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, I think we just have a different system from Australia, recalling that they have the Commonwealth and the state system. So in my discussions with counterparts in Australia, they often look with envy to New Zealand, in particular the fact that our primary care is much more integrated at a local level, so we have much better integration between primary and secondary care, and the opportunities afforded by our local alliances and similar arrangements. I think that Australia looks to us with envy— probably, I think, both do, and we also look further afield just to learn from each other’s systems and try and take the best of each other’s. Media: In terms of what you’ve said, though, previously, we’ve had to create a national system, haven’t we? So we haven’t had one, have we? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: This is very specific to our public health services. So we have our 12 public health units around the country. Some look after the public health function for more than one district health board, and whilst there is a national component to that, for example, we contract directly from the ministry with those public health units and the medical officers of health are designated by myself, there is still—a bit like our district health boards, they do tend to be contained within their region and deliver services for their region. What this has shown is that there is both a need and value in having that local and regional capability and capacity linked much more and integrated much more strongly at a national level. PM: I do think it’s important to recognise that until, you know, really, the beginning of the year, these services were used for TB, measles, you know, on a relatively infrequent basis—to then, suddenly, have to scale up for a service that could operate nationally in a global pandemic. So, yes, there has been areas where we’ve needed to boost resource, capability, build a national system of collating information across regions. We’ve had to do that very, very quickly, and that has meant there’s been more work to do. But when you think about what we usually have to do with these services and the additional layer that we’ve asked them to contend with, their response has been incredible. There is more to do, though, and we’re all very, very open about that. Media: Prime Minister, just on the elimination target, you say this doesn’t mean zero cases. Does this mean you’re prepared, or, at least, expecting, to have the virus in the country until there’s a vaccine? PM: Look, I do, again, think there’s a big difference between the notion of just suppression, where you accept, almost, the existence of COVID-19, and New Zealand’s strategy, which has been this ongoing campaign of elimination. But, of course, the reason I wanted to give that explanation is when you hear the word elimination, you think “gone for ever”. And I don’t want New Zealanders to think that when they see a case, that means we failed; it doesn’t. It means zero tolerance. So every time we see a case, we basically pounce on it. We do everything we can, then, to shut it down and to eliminate it when it arises, and we will have to keep doing that on an ongoing basis—and, yes, until a vaccine arises. Media: Can I return to the question of the regions. I think there’s so few cases now—I think 14 in the last four days. There are going to be regions in New Zealand that haven’t had a case in a week or so. And you’re going to have cries from those regions to re-open or go to level 2. Are you open to doing that, or is that just a closed shop until 11 May? PM: No, the decision we’ve made today is for all of New Zealand. We haven’t ruled out in the future circumstances where we may take on regional variation, but we haven’t adopted it in this instance. Media: Prime Minister, a couple for other newsrooms, if that’s all right—firstly, our sports department: at what alert level are contact sports likely to be able to resume training again? PM: Yeah. We’re doing further work at the moment—that is primarily applicable to alert level 2. Media: OK, and Australia’s forcing tech giants like Google and Facebook to pay local media companies for their content. Will you follow suit? PM: To pay local media companies for their content—I haven’t seen that announcement; I’ll look in a little more detail. I would, again, remind—just give the example, though, in recent times, our COVID-19 advertising campaign has predominantly gone through and had the biggest proportion of spend with our mainstream media rather than alternates like Facebook and online services. Media: Given that Facebook is sharing local media content, though, and it’s picking up a big share of that advertising revenue, should those tech giants be paying a kind of dividend of that— PM: Of course, we’ve had the debate about digital services taxation—that’s something we consulted on; it’s not something we’ve made any decisions on. But you will remember that as a Government, this is a question that we have asked the public and sought their feedback. Media: Prime Minister, in a week’s time, we go to level 3, what will you be looking for in that two weeks at level 3—what sort of indicators will you be looking for to enable you to go to level 2? PM: Again, New Zealanders will be looking at the same things we will be. Again, what’s happening with our case numbers, what those case numbers tell us—the story that they tell us about transmission, and where they’re happening. So, again, we’ll be sharing that data in real time. And, also, we’ll continue to be looking at keeping our testing up, keeping that positivity rate low—so for a big number of tests, just a small number of positives—and making sure we get that good geographic spread. Media: Where would those case— PM: Dr Bloomfield, would you like to share your— Media: Yeah, where would those case numbers need to be? PM: I’ll just let Dr Bloomfield just add, as well. Bloomfield: So I think those are the main features. We’ll be wanting, on a daily basis, as we have been doing, to really understand, if we’re getting cases, where they are and how we got them, and then, as the Prime Minister said, you know, that really strong “stamp it out” posture. So that will be really critical to giving us confidence that the level 3 measures are working. And I think, also—and the Prime Minister’s alluded to this—we need to be even more vigilant in level 3 than in level 4, because we don’t have the protection of the full lockdown scenario, and so we’ll be wanting to see that New Zealanders are maintaining those really critical behaviours that will help protect us and help keep those chains of transmission broken, really, and that is particularly around physical distancing, so that will, I think, be critical also to our advice about whether or not to move further beyond alert level 3. PM: I’m aware that many of you have deadlines for filing, so I’ll just take two more questions, if I may. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the NHI—what proportion of New Zealanders does it have up-to-date contact details for, and is it enough? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Very high now, I would—I won’t guess, other than to say it’s well over 95 percent, and the reason for that is we now have a national electronic enrolment service through our primary care, and one of our best ways to get up-to-date contact details for people is when they enrol through their general practitioner with the PHO. And that is updated—a file is sent—every month into the Ministry of Health and the information, any updates, on address information goes into the NHI at that time, so it’s very contemporary. Media: Did Cabinet do exactly what you asked them to today? Did Cabinet do exactly what you recommended, or was it not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’ll have to defer to the Prime Minister on that? PM: Dr Bloomfield wasn’t part of the Cabinet decision, but I can tell you, in writing, he gave us the advice that we do exactly what we have announced today. Media: Prime Minister, there are some concerns from principals and teachers that, at level 3, “work from home if you can” means that those who can’t are more likely blue-collar workers, they will have to send their children to ECE, to schools. What is your message to those principals and teachers? PM: Sorry, you’ll have to explain to me what the difference is therefore? Media: That they will have to send their kids to school? PM: Yes. I mean, ultimately, we are asking parents who can work from home to work from home, and yes there will be certain types, then, of workforces that are more able to work from home that can’t. But I think we also need to keep in mind that there have been hundreds of thousands of New Zealanders who are in our essential workforces, including people who are delivering our goods and services and people who are sitting on the checkouts at supermarkets, who have continued to work for us, and now they will be joined by others. I consider, therefore, our teachers part of that critical workforce, and I do believe that we can, of course, focus on their health and safety as well, as well the children, which should be a smaller number than what they are used to, to be able to create bubbles of safety within a schooling environment to the best of our ability. Media: Because you’ve extended the lockdown, and therefore the amount of time that businesses, some businesses, will have no cashflow, will you extend the wage subsidy scheme? PM: No. Keeping in mind the wage subsidy scheme was for a 12 week period, which of course is well beyond what our alert level 4, and even— Media: So that’ll be no? PM: No, so alert level 4 obviously has gone for four weeks, and then we’ll be going through to those additional few days, and then even with the extra two of level 3, that’s still well below the 12 weeks’ worth which the wage subsidy was the value of. Media: Just in terms of your remarks yesterday about public attitudes being part of the consideration, what actually got brought to the Cabinet table around that? I mean, have you effectively been doing, sort of, Zoom focus groups and polling around this? How do you weigh that? PM: Oh, and that’s a very good question. That’s very difficult, but one of the things that you look for, of course, is the level of compliance, that obviously if people are feeling like they’ve been asked to do something that is in keeping with what’s required to protect New Zealand, then you’re more likely to see that compliance. And I think what you can see from the data we do have, from things like Google tracking, for instance, that they’ve made publicly available, is that New Zealanders’ compliance has been really high, and I take that as a sign that they can see the value of what we’re doing. You only have to look overseas to see why this is so important. OK, thank you everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Transcript of COVID-19 media conference – 20 April
Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you'll be able to use our website. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website
The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Grant Robertson, Minister of Finance Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health Watch the media conference here.
Home Updates Transcript of the daily media conference 1 May --- Section Separator --- Kia ora. Ana mea nui ki a koutou katoa. Nau mai haere mai ki tēnei hui. Greetings everybody. Welcome to Friday’s press conference: day four of Alert Level 3. I will hand over first to the Director of Public Health, Dr Caroline McElnay. Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we have three new confirmed cases of COVID-19 to report. One case is linked to overseas travel, one is linked to a known case and is still being investigated, and one is still under investigation. This means our total confirmed cases is 1,132 and the total probable cases 347. That brings our current total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand to 1,479. I’m pleased to say that there are no new COVID-19 deaths to report. Yesterday, our laboratories completed 5,328 tests, bringing the total number of tests completed to date to 139,898. We have 1,252 cases that are reported as having recovered from COVID-19, which is an increase of 11 from yesterday, and so 85 percent of all our confirmed and probable cases are considered to be recovered. There are six people in hospital today, and none of those six are in intensive care. There are still 16 significant clusters. One has had no cases notified in a 28-day period, and that is considered to be closed. We expect to close another cluster tomorrow, and we have a further six clusters where the last case was reported between 14 and 28 days ago, so we expect to be able to close those off in the next few days. I just want to talk about the press release which was issued by Waitematā earlier today. So Waitematā District Health Board this morning issued a media statement on three staff members who have tested positive for COVID-19. One of those was tested and was positive at the weekend, one was included in yesterday’s tally, and one is included in today’s count. The staff had worked on a ward where patients from St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home were transferred due to staffing shortages at that facility. I have spoken to DHB deputy chief executive, Dr Andrew Brant, and he has assured me that they have taken all appropriate actions to minimise any potential risks to patients and staff. The source of staff contracting COVID-19 remains under investigation. Full PPE was available and worn by staff at all times in the area where the St Margaret’s patients are being cared for. A review is in progress to understand how and where the infection may have occurred. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. I want to cover three things today: around enforcement, the winter energy payment, and the small-business cash-flow loan scheme. Firstly, on enforcement: an update of our ongoing enforcement under Alert Level 3 rules. It is paramount that we do not lose our hard-won health gains as we move to reboot our economy. Today, I can update you that there have been a total of 281 breaches of the CDEM or Health Acts under Alert Level 3, and that’s an increase of 96 in the past 24 hours. Of those 281, 77 people have been prosecuted—an increase of 31 in the past 24 hours—180 warnings have been issued—an increase of 61 in the past 24 hours—and there have been 24 youth referrals—an increase of four in the past 24 hours. There have been 2,064 police assurance patrols over the past two days, alongside 2,790 crime prevention patrols in neighbourhoods and business districts. The increases in these numbers are an indication that the police are stepping up their enforcement response, and this will continue over the weekend. I want to make it clear that most New Zealanders are indeed doing the right thing and that this is actually reflected in the number of people calling out those who are doing the wrong thing. There have been a total of 2,101 reports from members of the public at level 3: 991 of those about businesses and 785 about individuals; 325 about mass gatherings. These are being followed up, and as we head into the weekend, there is a particular example that I want to highlight. As part of these reports by members of the public, there has been an increase of reports about parties at residential addresses that clearly include people beyond that person’s bubble. I have two clear messages for anyone considering that. First, cancel your plans now; secondly, be aware that the police will be particularly taking a dim view of this activity as part of their level 3 enforcement activity this weekend. We know that events where there have been gatherings such as parties have been at the root of a number of our clusters. The virus has proven it will spread easily at events like this. Any uptick in cases as a result of parties will mean that we have to stay in level 3 longer. So, please: don’t be an idiot. Stick to your bubble and everyone will be better off. I want to mention the winter energy payment today. From today, this payment runs for four months, as it has since 2018. For this year, the Government has doubled the 2020 winter energy payment to support our older and lower-income New Zealanders. This year, it comes to $1,400 for couples and $900 for a single person. People will see this additional money in their next payment from MSD. There’s two reasons that we made the decision to double the payment. At a time when we’re asking people to stay at home in their bubbles and keep well, our role is to provide support for our most vulnerable to stay warm and healthy and reduce any unnecessary burden on health services. We also know that those on lower incomes are more likely to spend that extra income on basic household needs, and so we know that this doubling of the winter energy payment will provide an immediate stimulus to local economies across the country as we are rebooting the economy. Today, we are also announcing further measures as part of our significant support package for businesses to boost cash flow and protect jobs and incomes. To date, the Government has acted quickly to put in place business support such as the $10.5 billion wage subsidy, the large package of business tax support, and the business finance guarantee scheme that we’re delivering in partnership with the banks. We’ve also been making sure that this support gets out the door to our business, workers, and economy as soon as possible and, indeed, faster than in many other countries. Today, we are adding to that. We have announced that the Government will provide interest-free loans for a year for small and medium sized business impacted by COVID-19 to support their immediate cash-flow needs and meet fixed costs. Businesses with 50 or fewer employees will be able to apply to the Inland Revenue Department for loans from 12 May. This is a 100 percent Government lending scheme to support our SMEs. We’re backing these businesses because we know how important they are to our economy. We also know that our small and medium enterprises have not been able to access the support that they need from other sources. The scheme will provide $10,000 to every firm and, in addition, $1,800 per equivalent fulltime employee. The scheme has a maximum term of five years. Repayments of principal and interest are not required for the first two years. The interest rate will be 3 percent, but, as noted, the loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The eligibility criteria are the same as for the wage subsidy scheme, but businesses will also have to declare that they are a viable business and that they will use the money for core business operating costs. There will be an audit process, led by IRD. This support is available to help more than 400,000 businesses who have 50 or fewer employees. It’s designed to get immediate support and help to our smaller businesses to cover costs like rent and other bills. It sits alongside the business finance guarantee scheme that we put in place with banks for medium-sized businesses. Today, I can also announce that we are making a number of updates to this scheme based on the feedback we have had. This includes removing the Government’s requirement for a general security agreement and making the scheme more flexible by not requiring customers to have drawn down all existing facilities before applying. We are considering further changes to that scheme as well, to ensure it plays its part in supporting our businesses. Taken together, the wage subsidy, the business loan guarantee scheme, the significant packages of tax changes, and the support through the business loan scheme, we have a significant package to cushion the blow of COVID-19 for businesses to protect jobs and put New Zealand’s economy on a footing to get going again off the back of the amazing work that New Zealanders have all done to stamp out COVID-19 and get a head-start for our economic recovery. Finally, the Prime Minister in her press conferences this week has finished by talking about slices of Kiwi ingenuity that we’re seeing in Alert Level 3 as we find new ways of working while making sure we stay on course for our health response. Today, I’d like to add one that’s close to my heart as the Associate Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage. Our arts sector has suffered an intense blow as we fight COVID-19, as have others around the world, seen through the cancellation and postponement of Cannes Festival or the New York Tribeca festival. So, this year in New Zealand, we are bringing our arthouse to your house. The New Zealand International Film Festival is this year presenting its programme online for the very first time. From 24 July to 2 August, the world-class curated programme of world and New Zealand films can be screened at home. The joy, inspiration, and connection these festivals bring us will be missed by many, but now we have a creative solution befitting of our culture sector, and one that is well worthy of our support. Happy to take your questions. Media: Dr McElnay, how can you take the word of the Waitematā DHB when they say that they’re doing everything that they can to minimise infection when three staff members have been infected with the coronavirus? Dr Caroline McElnay: So Waitematā DHB have given me some details today around the investigations that they’re undertaking. They launched extensive investigations after the first case was reported. They have been doing a significant amount of testing of both staff and patients. The two further cases that have developed since then has added to that intensity of swabbing that is under way and their investigations are still in progress, and that includes patients as well as staff. Media: [Inaudible] that didn’t really answer the question, sorry—how can you take them at their word that they’re doing everything they can to minimise infection when they have three staff members who have been infected? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, because they’re investigating it thoroughly, and the staff who were infected—we still don’t know the source of that infection, but the DHB has assured me that the staff were wearing PPE when they had any dealings with any of the COVID-19 residents who had been transferred to that ward. Media: What roles were those staff in—are they flexi-nurses, perhaps, who were working between a ward that has COVID patients and other wards within the hospital? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have the details of their exact roles that they had, but the DHB has investigated where they were working and what their possible contact was with any of the patients, and have ensured that PPE was worn. And, obviously, this is why they really need to investigate this fully to make sure that there are no possible breaches of any PPE—we really want that assurance. Hon Grant Robertson: And just to be absolutely clear that, obviously, this is a hospital that’s been dealing with the transferred patients from the St Margaret’s rest home. We had assurances that the staff involved have all been wearing PPE, but this is why we have to continue to investigate these matters. But also be aware—as we’ve said a number of times—that, unfortunately, PPE is not completely foolproof, and so we have to be taking extra vigilance. I’m sure that’s the outcome we’ll get. Media: Why are these Government-backed loans necessary when we already have the business finance guarantee scheme? Is it the case that banks aren’t getting money out the door fast enough? Hon Grant Robertson: I think for small and medium enterprises, in particular, there are quite specific issues—I mean, many of the small businesses in New Zealand are actually based upon individuals. The capital that’s in the business is actually being created off the back of perhaps their own house or their own savings, and those people can’t always get the support that they need from a bank. So this is a scheme that’s designed specifically for small and medium enterprises. We believe it’s a scheme that will be welcomed because it will give instant access to cash flow—to the working capital that’s needed to support these businesses through this situation. The business finance guarantee scheme: we are continuing, as I said, to tweak the criteria of that and to work with the banks to ensure that it does play its part. But when it comes to these SMEs, we think this kind of bespoke scheme delivered directly by the Government will mean that they’ll get the cash flow they need. I’ll just take a follow-up. Media: The tourism industry is really keen for domestic travel to be included under level 2. Is that something the Government will re-look at? Hon Grant Robertson: As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we’re still finalising what will happen under level 2 within some of those specific areas. Quite clearly, under level 2 we’d want to be limiting around things like mass gatherings, in particular, but we have to look again at the detail of what’s required for travel—how we can make sure that that travel remains safe and doesn’t become a vector for further infection. So that work’s under way at the moment to see what can be done under level 2. Media: Minister Robertson, why are there two different versions of the bill that passed yesterday—one with the loan scheme in it and one without—and why was the one with the loan scheme tabled when it wasn’t announced in the press release? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah. So look, what happened yesterday was that the bill that was put out by the Parliamentary Counsel Office—and it was tabled in the House—was incorrect. The Parliamentary Counsel’s office have apologised for that. It was always the intention of the Government to be able to bring this scheme forward, and all the legislation did was create the enabling framework for that. I think what’s really important here is, today, we’ve got a scheme that will put money in the pockets of those small and medium enterprises to meet their fixed costs, and I’m sure they’ll welcome that. Media: So does that make you regret the speed which Parliament was working at? In essence, because of that small error by a small part of Parliament, Parliament has now passed the wrong piece of legislation. Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I wouldn’t actually characterise the legislation that way. This is something that we always intended to do; the legislation has simply created the enabling framework for that. But—to your initial point—look, there is a lot being done with a great deal of speed at the moment. From time to time, there’ll be a mistake. This was a mistake—a genuine one—and the Parliamentary Counsel Office have apologised for that. The good news is that, actually, the scheme is getting out there now and getting money to the business people that need it. Media: How will the IRD assess credit risks, and will the IRD be beefed up with more people to assess how viable these businesses are? Hon Grant Robertson: We’re certainly going to be providing more support to Inland Revenue to be able to deliver this scheme—I mean, clearly, obviously, Inland Revenue has a lot of information about businesses, and so it makes it reasonably easy for people to be able to do those investigations. Everyone who applies for the scheme will have to declare that they are a viable business, and there will be an audit process that follows on from that. Media: Over what time frame will this loan be available? Hon Grant Robertson: So at this stage, our intention is to have the scheme open for one month for applications, but we will review that before the end of that month to see how the scheme is rolling out and whether there is a need for it to be available and open any longer than that. Media: How much money have you put aside for it? Hon Grant Robertson: Obviously, it will depend upon the number of businesses who apply for it. We’ve got around 400,000 small and medium enterprises in New Zealand and many of them have taken up the wage subsidy scheme, so the amount of money that we need will be dependent on that. Go Jenna—yep. Media: How high is the risk that small businesses will default on their loan? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously, we would want to see as many small businesses as possible repay, but there is risk that for some of them, they may not be able to come through the other side of COVID-19 and be able to pay this debt. So we’ll factor that into our calculations about what it is—what’s the fiscal cost, as we would describe it. But we would be hopeful that many businesses will be able to pay us back. Media: Are you comfortable taking on that amount of risk on behalf of small businesses? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s really important to get the balance right here. This is a loan scheme; people have to pay it back. It does have an interest rate attached to it—a 3 percent rate for the maximum term of five years—but if it’s paid off in the first year, it’s interest free. So I think we’ve got the balance right here between a scheme that will get money to those small and medium enterprises as quickly as possible but it’s being delivered in a responsible way. Newshub—yeah. Media: What do you say to those businesses who may perhaps already have taken a loan with the bank and are now looking at these comfortable interest rates that the Government’s offering and saying, “Gosh, I wish they had brought that out sooner so that I didn’t already sign up for something that’s going to cost me a lot more in the long run.”? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously those businesses will take the time to consider whether this scheme is one that they want to draw down upon and how that matches with any other debts that they might have, or whatever their needs are. But the scheme is available. As long as you can meet the criteria—which are, effectively, the same criteria as the wage subsidy scheme—along with you making a declaration that you are a viable business, then the scheme is open to those businesses, as it is for all other small and medium enterprises. Media: Minister, is New Zealand going to support Taiwan’s resumption as an observer member of the World Health Organization? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, that’s a matter that I’d need to get some advice on from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the Ministry of Health, so I can’t answer that question for you today. Media: Does New Zealand support Australia’s call for an inquiry into the origins of COVID-19 and the WHO’s response to it? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh look, I think, like all nations, New Zealand is very focused on making sure we get our response right here in New Zealand—that we look after the people of New Zealand. We are very interested in the origins of COVID-19 because it helps explain to us what we need to do to respond to it. Collette, yes. [Interruption] Collette, thanks. Thanks, Collette. Media: Do Government agencies, ministries, health authorities, etc. have the freedom to make comments on COVID or respond to questions on COVID, or do they have to go via Ministers’ offices? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it will depend a lot on what the question is—I mean, if it’s something that involves a Minister’s office or a particular issue that a Minister has been commenting on, it would be the normal practice around information. We clearly have the “no surprises” policy that operates across Government, but you’d need to give me a specific example. Media: So you wouldn’t say that chief executives of, say, ministries are muzzled in any way from talking to the public about COVID? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it will just be the normal arrangements that we have—I mean, obviously, you know, chief executives have responsibilities for their departments. You know from the work that you do normally that it’s Ministers who generally front to the media about particular issues. It’ll very much depend on the circumstances of the issue. Media: Will domestic tourism be allowed under Alert Level 2? Hon Grant Robertson: As I just said before, we are looking again at Alert Level 2 and the rules that sit behind that. We want to make sure that we continue to balance the importance of public health with getting the economy going again, and Cabinet will be making its decisions about that over the coming week. Media: Minister, tourism operators say without it, thousands of jobs will be lost. If they can operate safely, why shouldn’t they be able to cater to domestic tourists? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, that’s the very point—is we need to make sure that whatever happens is done safely and upholds the public health guidelines of Alert Level 2. The work that Cabinet’s now going through is to assess what can and can’t happen in detail under Alert Level 2, and we’ll have a lot more to say about that next week. Media: What is it, then, at the high level? Because the existing advice was avoid all non-essential travel that’s inter-regional, but these guys are calling out for domestic tourism. You guys heard it firsthand before we went into lockdown, and you’ve been hearing it throughout—so [Inaudible] a bit of certainty and clarity. Hon Grant Robertson: Well, exactly. That’s what we will provide—that certainty and clarity—as we work through the detail of what Alert Level 2 looks like. We do know that travel has been an issue in terms of transmission of the virus, and so we have to make decisions that uphold our public health guidelines. But we absolutely understand that for domestic tourism, particularly, that’s the lifeline for the tourism industry. We’ll be making those decisions over the coming weeks. Yes, down the front. Media: Sorry, just to follow from Tova’s question there—so does that mean that there’ll be more—so the rules around Alert Level 2 will be released next week to give businesses more of an idea of what’s coming? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, just as we’ve done as we moved towards Alert Level 3, we spent a lot of time as a Government getting exact clarity on what the rules will be at Alert Level 3; we need to do the same thing for Alert Level 2. We’ve put out high-level guidance, but, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we’re reviewing that guidance to make sure that it both meets our public health guidelines and allows economic activity to the extent that we possibly can. Those decisions will be made and announced in the very near future. Media: Minister, is New Zealand going to see any more repatriation flights to India? Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t have any information about that with me today, Craig, but I do know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade continues to work with New Zealanders overseas to do what they can to support them to return. We’ve obviously had a number of people come back from India and a number of flights, and I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials in India continue to do everything they can, but I don’t have specific information. Media: On March 25, which was quite a fateful day for this Government now, you put the idea of a universal basic income on the table, or you said it was on the table. Does it remain on the table? Hon Grant Robertson: I’ve said before that the really important thing when it comes to stimulus in the economy is getting the timing of that right. Right now, when we’re in level 4 and level 3, stimulus packages will only have a limited amount of effect. What we want to do is make sure that we’re planning for the medium and long term for New Zealand, and so we will be looking at all the options that are available to continue to support New Zealanders to both make ends meet but also be part of an economy that grows. Those decisions have not been made, so it’s not a matter of saying something is on the table or off the table. We’re just considering all of our options at this time. Media: Did you consider raising the level of bank guarantee on the existing—of Government guarantee on the existing loan scheme from 80 percent to 100 percent? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, we’re continuing to have a look at what’s possible in terms of the business finance guarantee scheme. The tweaks that we’ve made today address some of the feedback that we’ve had, particularly around the general security agreement requirement. We’re also making some changes for access to particular types of businesses—so we’re bringing farm lending into that scheme, which wasn’t at the beginning—and we’re looking at some other changes in the future to make sure the scheme operates well. So I’ll have a bit more to say about that. I think what we’ve got now is a situation where we’re very aware of those small and medium enterprises—50 FTEs or less. These are the people who, as I said, often have their own personal finances involved. We needed to create a scheme that meant that they could get access to working capital to pay the rent and pay their other bills. The business finance guarantee scheme is more towards the medium enterprise end, and we’re tweaking that to make sure it works as well as it possibly can. Media: One those clusters that are close to being closed—or one has been closed—can you give us detail on which clusters they were, and is that an encouraging sign that we are able to see 28 days without any new cases in some instances? Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, yes. I’d need to check on the website to see if that’s signalled on the website, because that’s where we’re posting details of the clusters. It’s very encouraging. We’ve determined that a cluster would be officially closed when you’ve got a 28-day period from when the last case was reported, and so the fact that that’s what we’re seeing in more of these clusters is extremely encouraging, and we do expect to be able to close off the other clusters. Media: At which point going forward—maybe in the next week—will we know if level 3 is working, if we have—are we looking—because there’s a two-week transmission period, obviously. So when will you be looking at case numbers and things, and will we know that Kiwis are obeying the rules and we’re not spreading COVID-19 during level 3? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, we’re continuing to look at the case numbers every day and provide that advice to the Government as to what the cases are telling us. It’s a mixture of—it’s looking really good. We’ve got very low case numbers, but at the same time we are seeing cases being reported. So it just reminds us that we do have to be cautious, and we will continue to be doing that for the next period that we’re in level 3 in order to be able to provide advice as to what level 2 might mean. Hon Grant Robertson: And it’s just important to remember that the key thing here is to break the chain of community transmission. We do not have evidence of widespread community transmission in New Zealand, so that is something that we should all be encouraged by. But as we see the cases come in we continue to look closely at them to understand everything we can about them, and, as we did when we were moving from level 4 to level 3, we want the most up-to-date information to inform the Government’s decision about that. That’s the information that we get provided every day by the Ministry of Health, and so while the signs remain and continue to be encouraging, we will be making that decision with the most up-to-date information. I’ll just come down the front here, where there was one. Media: [Inaudible] people receiving main benefits in the last week. What do you make of those numbers, and how much further can we expect that balloon, I guess, to bubble out? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, as I said last week when we were talking about this, it’s extremely distressing for every single New Zealander who loses their job and find themselves in a situation of going on the jobseeker benefit. What we’re doing is attempting to limit that as much as possible, and the wage subsidy scheme has done a great job of that, but we’ve been very clear from the start that the impact of this crisis will be more significant than the global financial crisis, and that did see unemployment rise sharply as well. What we have to do is work closely with all New Zealanders to support them not only to stay in work but be able to retrain to get new jobs and new skills, and support the sectors that will provide those. That will be a focus within the Budget. Media: Dr McElnay, on Wednesday, Dr Bloomfield urged all New Zealanders to get their flu shots, saying vaccines were widely available. However, a PHO that represents hundreds of doctors in Auckland has told its members that on advice of the health ministry, vaccine stocks will likely run out again next week. Why are you giving what appears to be misleading information to the public? Dr Caroline McElnay: We’ve seen a fantastic response to the influenza immunisation programme this year, and we’ve given out more vaccines than have ever been distributed. We continue to get more vaccine coming into the country, but there has been a request from the sector, as well as information that we provided to the sector, that if there are any potential for any delay in receiving vaccines that the sector have that information. So there was information that was given out to the sector to say we are working with PHARMAC to get the vaccine out there. We will get you the vaccine that you need, but be prepared that you may have not have that vaccine at the time that you actually are planning to use it. So that was a very specific request from the sector that they have that heads-up, but we do know that we’ve got more vaccine coming in, and we’re hoping that there won’t be any issue with any delay. Hon Grant Robertson: Just to be very clear about that, there are 700,000 vaccine doses around the country that have not yet been administered—so they are in the community. There is availability of flu vaccine. As at last week, 587,000 people had been vaccinated. That compares to 290,000 people on the same date in 2019. So with those 700,000 vaccines still available in the community to actually be administered, we are confident that we have the supplies we need. We’ve already vaccinated far more people than we would have in the past. What the communications that are coming through from the Ministry of Health indicate is that there is more vaccine on the way, and we’re asking— Media: No, it says that it will likely run out again next week. It’s not necessarily just that it’s— Hon Grant Robertson: Well, the communications we’ve had from the Ministry of Health are that there are 700,000 vaccines out there. There are more on the way. That’s simply a piece of information to the sector around the way in which the vaccines have already been delivered into the communities and what will be coming in the future. Media: Sorry, just to follow up on that—this PHO was saying they will likely run out again next week. That was the advice from the Ministry of Health, so how can Dr Bloomfield argue that they’re widely available? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, because they are widely available—because there are 700,000 vaccines in the community. What this is about—as we’ve discussed on quite a few times at these press conferences—is around the distribution within a DHB, and, clearly, if there is a particular PHO that’s saying this, then we need to be talking to that DHB about how those doses that are already out there can be administered. Media: One GP we’ve spoken to has cancelled 50 flu jab bookings for next week due to the uncertainty. Is that good enough, and doesn’t that just reaffirm the position from the Medical Association that the national flu campaign has been a complete debacle? Hon Grant Robertson: No, I don’t accept that at all. When you’ve got a situation where you’ve got 587,000 people being vaccinated compared with 290,000 at the same time last year, that actually represents a campaign that is out there and is working. Clearly, we need to continue to ensure that the distribution chains within our health system work well, but I actually think with that level of vaccination and a commitment that more is coming, we are continuing the kind of campaign that New Zealanders would expect. Thomas, we haven’t had any from you. Media: Dr McElnay, just a question from our news room: have you got an update on the number of suicides that have occurred since lockdown, and, if so, what is the policy regarding testing them for COVID-19, and is there a policy in terms of mental health checks on vulnerable patients during the alert levels? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t actually have information specifically around suicides, but we can provide that information for you. What I can say, though, is that as part of our surveillance strategy to make sure that we’re identifying and capturing any COVID-19 infections that might be out there, any sudden deaths that occur in the community that are subject to a coroner’s inquiry—that testing for COVID occurs if it is felt that that person could have died as a result of that. So that’s an extra piece of information that we have to tell us about COVID-19 out in the community. Media: Minister, just a question in terms of the business finance guarantee scheme: how much more risk are taxpayers going to be exposed to by removing that requirement to have a general security agreement, and do you expect that even if that requirement is removed, banks will still have a requirement themselves and take some security from businesses? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, at this time, our risk remains the 80 percent risk that we announced at the beginning. We’ve been clear that what we wanted from the scheme was for viable but vulnerable businesses to be supported. Clearly, there are some businesses that banks won’t support, and we mentioned that at start—for example, those who are on the watch list—but what we wanted from the scheme was for banks to apply it in such a way that businesses that perhaps they might have not processed previously they would, as long as they were still viable. In terms of what they will now do that we’ve removed the requirement for the general security agreement, it will still be up to banks, but, as I said at the start, we are continuing to look at further tweaks to the scheme. Media: Just a follow-up, in terms of the extra risk that taxpayers are taking on, if a bank—sorry. If a business collapses, then taxpayers might not be able to take that business owner’s house, which I know is—it’s an unfortunate and horrible situation, but you, no doubt, have to balance taxpayer risk as well as— Hon Grant Robertson: Bear in mind, the schemes are being delivered by the banks, so in the end it remains up to the bank to make decisions about what kind of security they will take on, but what we’re saying is the Government is not requiring that in terms of our 80 percent underwriting. But we’re not in a position of being the people who look at a particular type of security. I do think it’s really important. It is one of the reasons why we have put in place today the small business loan scheme—is because we want those smaller businesses, many of whom often are financed off the back, perhaps, of a second mortgage on their home, to get support that does not require them to concern themselves about that, and if they can pay it back within a year, it’s interest-free. It’s about cash flow for those small businesses that play such a big part in our economy. Media: I have a slightly indelicate question on behalf of a colleague. So thousands of people have been going to the beach, but councils have been told to keep toilets closed, which has seen people relieving themselves in the sand dunes. Can you please clear up the messages around allowing regional travel to beaches, but not opening the facilities to cope with that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think we’ll probably go back to the beginning here— that people need to show a sense of personal responsibility. I think we all know what’s right and wrong when it comes to relieving oneself at the beach. In terms of a general comment around what people should be doing, we continue to want them to stay close to home. Under level 3 there has been some relaxation to allow you to travel within your region, but that is for short-term recreation. It’s also to make sure that there are some further options available for people, but the first and best preference is to stay local. I could say some other things, but I won’t. [Interruption] Sorry, we’re just down the front, then we’ll come up here, Jenna. Media: Minister, Lawyers for Climate Change have written to you and other Ministers. They’re worried that the shovel-ready projects criteria doesn’t address things like gas emissions and the effects of climate change, which they’re warning could be unlawful. What assurances can you give to them that that is being considered in future decisions being made on these projects? Hon Grant Robertson: So the decisions on what projects we adopt will be made by Cabinet, and Cabinet will be operating under the plans that we’ve already announced, and one of the core ones of those is the importance of a transition to a low-carbon economy. So the decisions we make will be supportive of those goals that the Government has had from the beginning, and we showed that with our New Zealand Upgrade Programme, which had a mixture of projects, that—yes—did include some roading projects but it included rail. It included getting rid of some of those boilers in our schools and our hospitals. It includes cycling. It included walking projects. So that’s a sign, I think, you can see of the fact that when we think about infrastructure, we have in mind all of the things that matter: creating jobs, making sure we can transition to that low-carbon environment, growing productivity, and keeping the economy moving. We continue to balance those in our decisions about the infrastructure projects. Media: And just a question from one of our regional reporters: they’ve had a specific plea from West Coast mayors that they want to be allowed to go into level 2 sooner. What do you say to them—because they’re really struggling there at the moment. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, I think it’s really important that we continue to stay the course on level 3. New Zealanders know the great gains we made in level 4, and we need to lock those in through level 3, and that’s been because, as a country of 5 million people, we have decided, collectively, that we’re all in this together. And so I can understand in communities like the West Coast they’re saying “We want to get on with it.”— we all do—but we’ve got to stay the course in level 3. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we haven’t ruled out the possibility in the future that there could be regional differences, but for now this is something that we’re all in together. You know, I also do bear in mind that— and I’m sure the mayors of the West Coast will understand this—our very first death from COVID-19 was from someone on the West Coast. So I think it’s a reminder for all of us that this virus can spread, and spread easily, and that means that we have to stay vigilant under level 3. Jenna. Media: ANZ and mortgage brokers are warning more New Zealanders will default on their loans like mortgages in the coming months. Are you concerned about that? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I’m very concerned for all New Zealanders that they have the resources to be able to pay their mortgages, and that’s why one of the very early things that was agreed with banks was the mortgage deferral scheme. It’s why we’re continuing to provide a range of support through the tax system and through the small business cash flow support we announced today. So, you know, this is a situation where there’s going to be a big impact on the New Zealand economy, but the Government is doing all it can to support people to be able to pay their bills like their mortgages. Media: Have you been given any forecast on the number of defaults and the financial cost of that, and are you offering any help to banks to cover those losses— Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously, the business finance guarantee scheme is a significant contribution from the Government to carrying risk for those loans. The banks have very strong balance sheets in New Zealand, and while they’re under pressure—like all companies are—they are making arrangements with their customers right now for interest-only payments for deferral of mortgage payments. I don’t have specific information about the particular impacts of that, but we all know that this is an economic shock that’s going to affect a lot of New Zealanders. Media: Another slightly random question from a colleague— Hon Grant Robertson: The day for it. Media: —there’s a company down south who is creating T-shirts, and they’ve actually got Dr Bloomfield’s face on it with the words “Curve Crusher”. They’re using it for charity, though—$50,000 has actually been raised for Women’s Refuge. What do you think about this innovative idea, and would you consider buying one? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think, you know, it’s fantastic that New Zealanders, in a time of crisis like this, are raising money for a cause like Women’s Refuge, and I think we should all be really proud of the fact that in a time of crisis, people come together like that. I’m very conscious of the fact that Dr Bloomfield has become somewhat of a cult figure in New Zealand, and from time to time that means you end up on T-shirts and tea towels and so on. At this stage, I haven’t found the website address to make that order, and I’d have to make sure they had the right sizes available as well. Craig. Media: Dr McElnay, just a question on health workers with COVID-19. I think it was last weekend, there was a nurse at Burwood that was reported as positive. Do we have any details yet on how they got it? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have those details to hand, but those are certainly situations where we investigate fully to find out how they might have been exposed to the virus. Media: And is there a time line on the current investigation out of Waitematā—how long you expect that might take? Dr Caroline McElnay: We expect to get a further update later today. As I’ve said, the first case was notified over the weekend, so there was some initial investigation that happened there. Then, there was a case yesterday, and then again today. So there’s been extensive further testing, and we expect to get further results either today or tomorrow. Hon Grant Robertson: We’ll just take a couple more—Ben. Media: Minister, now that the final details around the Cannabis Legislation and Control Bill are released, will you be voting for it? Hon Grant Robertson: At a personal level, yes, I will be, in the referendum—that’s a decision and a position I’ve held for a very long time—but this is a personal choice for New Zealanders, and what the release of the bill means is we’re at the next stage of New Zealanders being able to make up their mind on it. One thing I would say—and this is a personal view—is, for me, it is not the most important issue that’s facing New Zealand or facing me, and while I have a moral stance on it, I’m one individual. Now is the opportunity for New Zealanders to understand the bill. There will be a large public education campaign run about it, which will enable people to understand it as much as possible. Media: Have you seen public polling that puts Labour at 55 percent at the moment? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I’m not interested in polls at all at the moment. Tova. Media: On that, though, the poll results have been— Hon Grant Robertson: Could be the same answer coming your way, but—yes? Media: —for the National Party—well, maybe if you could respond to the National Party on this, because the poll results for them are 29 percent, and the National Party—Simon Bridges is saying Labour should focus on getting New Zealand back to work, not leaking dodgy numbers. What’s your response to that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, we are focused completely on making sure that we support New Zealanders through COVID-19, and I’m very, very confident the poll coming into the public arena had nothing to do with the Labour Party. Media: Does 29 percent for National sound like dodgy numbers to you? Hon Grant Robertson: I’m just not interested in polls at the moment. Thomas. Media: Minister Robertson, just a question from our news room. You will have seen the pictures of a hundred people at a tangi in Canterbury. What would you expect police and health authorities to do about it, particularly in light of the fact that local police are saying they’re reluctant to police a tangi? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think everybody will understand just how difficult this issue is. For all of us, we’re going to have people in our lives who we know who, potentially, are going to be facing the loss of a family member or a friend at this time, and it’s incredibly hard. We’ve put the rules in place we had around limiting people who go to tangi or who go to funerals for good public health reasons. In the particular case that’s here, the family said about having a tangi with only 10 or fewer people attending, and it blew out to a larger number. That’s really disappointing. These rules have been put in place in consultation with groups within the Māori community in particular, and so we urge people in really difficult circumstances to stick to the rules here, and I’m sure the police will take a compassionate approach. But the rules are the rules, and people do need to stand by them. Media: Minister, I just have another question on the business finance guarantee scheme— Hon Grant Robertson: My favourite topic, so yes. Media: Yes—I love it. Will agricultural businesses be able to get loans under the scheme—is that what you’re saying? Hon Grant Robertson: That’s correct. So that’s the change that we made. Initially, they were taken out of the scheme because it was felt by the banks and ourselves that they were dealt with through other products that the banks might have, but we think, in order to make the scheme as valuable as possible, it’s time to open up to those businesses. Thanks everybody. Have a good weekend. --- Section Separator --- Kia ora. Ana mea nui ki a koutou katoa. Nau mai haere mai ki tēnei hui. Greetings everybody. Welcome to Friday’s press conference: day four of Alert Level 3. I will hand over first to the Director of Public Health, Dr Caroline McElnay. --- Section Separator --- Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we have three new confirmed cases of COVID-19 to report. One case is linked to overseas travel, one is linked to a known case and is still being investigated, and one is still under investigation. This means our total confirmed cases is 1,132 and the total probable cases 347. That brings our current total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand to 1,479. I’m pleased to say that there are no new COVID-19 deaths to report. Yesterday, our laboratories completed 5,328 tests, bringing the total number of tests completed to date to 139,898. We have 1,252 cases that are reported as having recovered from COVID-19, which is an increase of 11 from yesterday, and so 85 percent of all our confirmed and probable cases are considered to be recovered. There are six people in hospital today, and none of those six are in intensive care. There are still 16 significant clusters. One has had no cases notified in a 28-day period, and that is considered to be closed. We expect to close another cluster tomorrow, and we have a further six clusters where the last case was reported between 14 and 28 days ago, so we expect to be able to close those off in the next few days. I just want to talk about the press release which was issued by Waitematā earlier today. So Waitematā District Health Board this morning issued a media statement on three staff members who have tested positive for COVID-19. One of those was tested and was positive at the weekend, one was included in yesterday’s tally, and one is included in today’s count. The staff had worked on a ward where patients from St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home were transferred due to staffing shortages at that facility. I have spoken to DHB deputy chief executive, Dr Andrew Brant, and he has assured me that they have taken all appropriate actions to minimise any potential risks to patients and staff. The source of staff contracting COVID-19 remains under investigation. Full PPE was available and worn by staff at all times in the area where the St Margaret’s patients are being cared for. A review is in progress to understand how and where the infection may have occurred. Thank you. --- Section Separator --- Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. I want to cover three things today: around enforcement, the winter energy payment, and the small-business cash-flow loan scheme. Firstly, on enforcement: an update of our ongoing enforcement under Alert Level 3 rules. It is paramount that we do not lose our hard-won health gains as we move to reboot our economy. Today, I can update you that there have been a total of 281 breaches of the CDEM or Health Acts under Alert Level 3, and that’s an increase of 96 in the past 24 hours. Of those 281, 77 people have been prosecuted—an increase of 31 in the past 24 hours—180 warnings have been issued—an increase of 61 in the past 24 hours—and there have been 24 youth referrals—an increase of four in the past 24 hours. There have been 2,064 police assurance patrols over the past two days, alongside 2,790 crime prevention patrols in neighbourhoods and business districts. The increases in these numbers are an indication that the police are stepping up their enforcement response, and this will continue over the weekend. I want to make it clear that most New Zealanders are indeed doing the right thing and that this is actually reflected in the number of people calling out those who are doing the wrong thing. There have been a total of 2,101 reports from members of the public at level 3: 991 of those about businesses and 785 about individuals; 325 about mass gatherings. These are being followed up, and as we head into the weekend, there is a particular example that I want to highlight. As part of these reports by members of the public, there has been an increase of reports about parties at residential addresses that clearly include people beyond that person’s bubble. I have two clear messages for anyone considering that. First, cancel your plans now; secondly, be aware that the police will be particularly taking a dim view of this activity as part of their level 3 enforcement activity this weekend. We know that events where there have been gatherings such as parties have been at the root of a number of our clusters. The virus has proven it will spread easily at events like this. Any uptick in cases as a result of parties will mean that we have to stay in level 3 longer. So, please: don’t be an idiot. Stick to your bubble and everyone will be better off. I want to mention the winter energy payment today. From today, this payment runs for four months, as it has since 2018. For this year, the Government has doubled the 2020 winter energy payment to support our older and lower-income New Zealanders. This year, it comes to $1,400 for couples and $900 for a single person. People will see this additional money in their next payment from MSD. There’s two reasons that we made the decision to double the payment. At a time when we’re asking people to stay at home in their bubbles and keep well, our role is to provide support for our most vulnerable to stay warm and healthy and reduce any unnecessary burden on health services. We also know that those on lower incomes are more likely to spend that extra income on basic household needs, and so we know that this doubling of the winter energy payment will provide an immediate stimulus to local economies across the country as we are rebooting the economy. Today, we are also announcing further measures as part of our significant support package for businesses to boost cash flow and protect jobs and incomes. To date, the Government has acted quickly to put in place business support such as the $10.5 billion wage subsidy, the large package of business tax support, and the business finance guarantee scheme that we’re delivering in partnership with the banks. We’ve also been making sure that this support gets out the door to our business, workers, and economy as soon as possible and, indeed, faster than in many other countries. Today, we are adding to that. We have announced that the Government will provide interest-free loans for a year for small and medium sized business impacted by COVID-19 to support their immediate cash-flow needs and meet fixed costs. Businesses with 50 or fewer employees will be able to apply to the Inland Revenue Department for loans from 12 May. This is a 100 percent Government lending scheme to support our SMEs. We’re backing these businesses because we know how important they are to our economy. We also know that our small and medium enterprises have not been able to access the support that they need from other sources. The scheme will provide $10,000 to every firm and, in addition, $1,800 per equivalent fulltime employee. The scheme has a maximum term of five years. Repayments of principal and interest are not required for the first two years. The interest rate will be 3 percent, but, as noted, the loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The eligibility criteria are the same as for the wage subsidy scheme, but businesses will also have to declare that they are a viable business and that they will use the money for core business operating costs. There will be an audit process, led by IRD. This support is available to help more than 400,000 businesses who have 50 or fewer employees. It’s designed to get immediate support and help to our smaller businesses to cover costs like rent and other bills. It sits alongside the business finance guarantee scheme that we put in place with banks for medium-sized businesses. Today, I can also announce that we are making a number of updates to this scheme based on the feedback we have had. This includes removing the Government’s requirement for a general security agreement and making the scheme more flexible by not requiring customers to have drawn down all existing facilities before applying. We are considering further changes to that scheme as well, to ensure it plays its part in supporting our businesses. Taken together, the wage subsidy, the business loan guarantee scheme, the significant packages of tax changes, and the support through the business loan scheme, we have a significant package to cushion the blow of COVID-19 for businesses to protect jobs and put New Zealand’s economy on a footing to get going again off the back of the amazing work that New Zealanders have all done to stamp out COVID-19 and get a head-start for our economic recovery. Finally, the Prime Minister in her press conferences this week has finished by talking about slices of Kiwi ingenuity that we’re seeing in Alert Level 3 as we find new ways of working while making sure we stay on course for our health response. Today, I’d like to add one that’s close to my heart as the Associate Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage. Our arts sector has suffered an intense blow as we fight COVID-19, as have others around the world, seen through the cancellation and postponement of Cannes Festival or the New York Tribeca festival. So, this year in New Zealand, we are bringing our arthouse to your house. The New Zealand International Film Festival is this year presenting its programme online for the very first time. From 24 July to 2 August, the world-class curated programme of world and New Zealand films can be screened at home. The joy, inspiration, and connection these festivals bring us will be missed by many, but now we have a creative solution befitting of our culture sector, and one that is well worthy of our support. Happy to take your questions. --- Section Separator --- Media: Dr McElnay, how can you take the word of the Waitematā DHB when they say that they’re doing everything that they can to minimise infection when three staff members have been infected with the coronavirus? Dr Caroline McElnay: So Waitematā DHB have given me some details today around the investigations that they’re undertaking. They launched extensive investigations after the first case was reported. They have been doing a significant amount of testing of both staff and patients. The two further cases that have developed since then has added to that intensity of swabbing that is under way and their investigations are still in progress, and that includes patients as well as staff. Media: [Inaudible] that didn’t really answer the question, sorry—how can you take them at their word that they’re doing everything they can to minimise infection when they have three staff members who have been infected? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, because they’re investigating it thoroughly, and the staff who were infected—we still don’t know the source of that infection, but the DHB has assured me that the staff were wearing PPE when they had any dealings with any of the COVID-19 residents who had been transferred to that ward. Media: What roles were those staff in—are they flexi-nurses, perhaps, who were working between a ward that has COVID patients and other wards within the hospital? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have the details of their exact roles that they had, but the DHB has investigated where they were working and what their possible contact was with any of the patients, and have ensured that PPE was worn. And, obviously, this is why they really need to investigate this fully to make sure that there are no possible breaches of any PPE—we really want that assurance. Hon Grant Robertson: And just to be absolutely clear that, obviously, this is a hospital that’s been dealing with the transferred patients from the St Margaret’s rest home. We had assurances that the staff involved have all been wearing PPE, but this is why we have to continue to investigate these matters. But also be aware—as we’ve said a number of times—that, unfortunately, PPE is not completely foolproof, and so we have to be taking extra vigilance. I’m sure that’s the outcome we’ll get. Media: Why are these Government-backed loans necessary when we already have the business finance guarantee scheme? Is it the case that banks aren’t getting money out the door fast enough? Hon Grant Robertson: I think for small and medium enterprises, in particular, there are quite specific issues—I mean, many of the small businesses in New Zealand are actually based upon individuals. The capital that’s in the business is actually being created off the back of perhaps their own house or their own savings, and those people can’t always get the support that they need from a bank. So this is a scheme that’s designed specifically for small and medium enterprises. We believe it’s a scheme that will be welcomed because it will give instant access to cash flow—to the working capital that’s needed to support these businesses through this situation. The business finance guarantee scheme: we are continuing, as I said, to tweak the criteria of that and to work with the banks to ensure that it does play its part. But when it comes to these SMEs, we think this kind of bespoke scheme delivered directly by the Government will mean that they’ll get the cash flow they need. I’ll just take a follow-up. Media: The tourism industry is really keen for domestic travel to be included under level 2. Is that something the Government will re-look at? Hon Grant Robertson: As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we’re still finalising what will happen under level 2 within some of those specific areas. Quite clearly, under level 2 we’d want to be limiting around things like mass gatherings, in particular, but we have to look again at the detail of what’s required for travel—how we can make sure that that travel remains safe and doesn’t become a vector for further infection. So that work’s under way at the moment to see what can be done under level 2. Media: Minister Robertson, why are there two different versions of the bill that passed yesterday—one with the loan scheme in it and one without—and why was the one with the loan scheme tabled when it wasn’t announced in the press release? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah. So look, what happened yesterday was that the bill that was put out by the Parliamentary Counsel Office—and it was tabled in the House—was incorrect. The Parliamentary Counsel’s office have apologised for that. It was always the intention of the Government to be able to bring this scheme forward, and all the legislation did was create the enabling framework for that. I think what’s really important here is, today, we’ve got a scheme that will put money in the pockets of those small and medium enterprises to meet their fixed costs, and I’m sure they’ll welcome that. Media: So does that make you regret the speed which Parliament was working at? In essence, because of that small error by a small part of Parliament, Parliament has now passed the wrong piece of legislation. Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I wouldn’t actually characterise the legislation that way. This is something that we always intended to do; the legislation has simply created the enabling framework for that. But—to your initial point—look, there is a lot being done with a great deal of speed at the moment. From time to time, there’ll be a mistake. This was a mistake—a genuine one—and the Parliamentary Counsel Office have apologised for that. The good news is that, actually, the scheme is getting out there now and getting money to the business people that need it. Media: How will the IRD assess credit risks, and will the IRD be beefed up with more people to assess how viable these businesses are? Hon Grant Robertson: We’re certainly going to be providing more support to Inland Revenue to be able to deliver this scheme—I mean, clearly, obviously, Inland Revenue has a lot of information about businesses, and so it makes it reasonably easy for people to be able to do those investigations. Everyone who applies for the scheme will have to declare that they are a viable business, and there will be an audit process that follows on from that. Media: Over what time frame will this loan be available? Hon Grant Robertson: So at this stage, our intention is to have the scheme open for one month for applications, but we will review that before the end of that month to see how the scheme is rolling out and whether there is a need for it to be available and open any longer than that. Media: How much money have you put aside for it? Hon Grant Robertson: Obviously, it will depend upon the number of businesses who apply for it. We’ve got around 400,000 small and medium enterprises in New Zealand and many of them have taken up the wage subsidy scheme, so the amount of money that we need will be dependent on that. Go Jenna—yep. Media: How high is the risk that small businesses will default on their loan? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously, we would want to see as many small businesses as possible repay, but there is risk that for some of them, they may not be able to come through the other side of COVID-19 and be able to pay this debt. So we’ll factor that into our calculations about what it is—what’s the fiscal cost, as we would describe it. But we would be hopeful that many businesses will be able to pay us back. Media: Are you comfortable taking on that amount of risk on behalf of small businesses? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s really important to get the balance right here. This is a loan scheme; people have to pay it back. It does have an interest rate attached to it—a 3 percent rate for the maximum term of five years—but if it’s paid off in the first year, it’s interest free. So I think we’ve got the balance right here between a scheme that will get money to those small and medium enterprises as quickly as possible but it’s being delivered in a responsible way. Newshub—yeah. Media: What do you say to those businesses who may perhaps already have taken a loan with the bank and are now looking at these comfortable interest rates that the Government’s offering and saying, “Gosh, I wish they had brought that out sooner so that I didn’t already sign up for something that’s going to cost me a lot more in the long run.”? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously those businesses will take the time to consider whether this scheme is one that they want to draw down upon and how that matches with any other debts that they might have, or whatever their needs are. But the scheme is available. As long as you can meet the criteria—which are, effectively, the same criteria as the wage subsidy scheme—along with you making a declaration that you are a viable business, then the scheme is open to those businesses, as it is for all other small and medium enterprises. Media: Minister, is New Zealand going to support Taiwan’s resumption as an observer member of the World Health Organization? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, that’s a matter that I’d need to get some advice on from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the Ministry of Health, so I can’t answer that question for you today. Media: Does New Zealand support Australia’s call for an inquiry into the origins of COVID-19 and the WHO’s response to it? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh look, I think, like all nations, New Zealand is very focused on making sure we get our response right here in New Zealand—that we look after the people of New Zealand. We are very interested in the origins of COVID-19 because it helps explain to us what we need to do to respond to it. Collette, yes. [Interruption] Collette, thanks. Thanks, Collette. Media: Do Government agencies, ministries, health authorities, etc. have the freedom to make comments on COVID or respond to questions on COVID, or do they have to go via Ministers’ offices? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it will depend a lot on what the question is—I mean, if it’s something that involves a Minister’s office or a particular issue that a Minister has been commenting on, it would be the normal practice around information. We clearly have the “no surprises” policy that operates across Government, but you’d need to give me a specific example. Media: So you wouldn’t say that chief executives of, say, ministries are muzzled in any way from talking to the public about COVID? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it will just be the normal arrangements that we have—I mean, obviously, you know, chief executives have responsibilities for their departments. You know from the work that you do normally that it’s Ministers who generally front to the media about particular issues. It’ll very much depend on the circumstances of the issue. Media: Will domestic tourism be allowed under Alert Level 2? Hon Grant Robertson: As I just said before, we are looking again at Alert Level 2 and the rules that sit behind that. We want to make sure that we continue to balance the importance of public health with getting the economy going again, and Cabinet will be making its decisions about that over the coming week. Media: Minister, tourism operators say without it, thousands of jobs will be lost. If they can operate safely, why shouldn’t they be able to cater to domestic tourists? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, that’s the very point—is we need to make sure that whatever happens is done safely and upholds the public health guidelines of Alert Level 2. The work that Cabinet’s now going through is to assess what can and can’t happen in detail under Alert Level 2, and we’ll have a lot more to say about that next week. Media: What is it, then, at the high level? Because the existing advice was avoid all non-essential travel that’s inter-regional, but these guys are calling out for domestic tourism. You guys heard it firsthand before we went into lockdown, and you’ve been hearing it throughout—so [Inaudible] a bit of certainty and clarity. Hon Grant Robertson: Well, exactly. That’s what we will provide—that certainty and clarity—as we work through the detail of what Alert Level 2 looks like. We do know that travel has been an issue in terms of transmission of the virus, and so we have to make decisions that uphold our public health guidelines. But we absolutely understand that for domestic tourism, particularly, that’s the lifeline for the tourism industry. We’ll be making those decisions over the coming weeks. Yes, down the front. Media: Sorry, just to follow from Tova’s question there—so does that mean that there’ll be more—so the rules around Alert Level 2 will be released next week to give businesses more of an idea of what’s coming? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, just as we’ve done as we moved towards Alert Level 3, we spent a lot of time as a Government getting exact clarity on what the rules will be at Alert Level 3; we need to do the same thing for Alert Level 2. We’ve put out high-level guidance, but, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we’re reviewing that guidance to make sure that it both meets our public health guidelines and allows economic activity to the extent that we possibly can. Those decisions will be made and announced in the very near future. Media: Minister, is New Zealand going to see any more repatriation flights to India? Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t have any information about that with me today, Craig, but I do know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade continues to work with New Zealanders overseas to do what they can to support them to return. We’ve obviously had a number of people come back from India and a number of flights, and I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials in India continue to do everything they can, but I don’t have specific information. Media: On March 25, which was quite a fateful day for this Government now, you put the idea of a universal basic income on the table, or you said it was on the table. Does it remain on the table? Hon Grant Robertson: I’ve said before that the really important thing when it comes to stimulus in the economy is getting the timing of that right. Right now, when we’re in level 4 and level 3, stimulus packages will only have a limited amount of effect. What we want to do is make sure that we’re planning for the medium and long term for New Zealand, and so we will be looking at all the options that are available to continue to support New Zealanders to both make ends meet but also be part of an economy that grows. Those decisions have not been made, so it’s not a matter of saying something is on the table or off the table. We’re just considering all of our options at this time. Media: Did you consider raising the level of bank guarantee on the existing—of Government guarantee on the existing loan scheme from 80 percent to 100 percent? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, we’re continuing to have a look at what’s possible in terms of the business finance guarantee scheme. The tweaks that we’ve made today address some of the feedback that we’ve had, particularly around the general security agreement requirement. We’re also making some changes for access to particular types of businesses—so we’re bringing farm lending into that scheme, which wasn’t at the beginning—and we’re looking at some other changes in the future to make sure the scheme operates well. So I’ll have a bit more to say about that. I think what we’ve got now is a situation where we’re very aware of those small and medium enterprises—50 FTEs or less. These are the people who, as I said, often have their own personal finances involved. We needed to create a scheme that meant that they could get access to working capital to pay the rent and pay their other bills. The business finance guarantee scheme is more towards the medium enterprise end, and we’re tweaking that to make sure it works as well as it possibly can. Media: One those clusters that are close to being closed—or one has been closed—can you give us detail on which clusters they were, and is that an encouraging sign that we are able to see 28 days without any new cases in some instances? Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, yes. I’d need to check on the website to see if that’s signalled on the website, because that’s where we’re posting details of the clusters. It’s very encouraging. We’ve determined that a cluster would be officially closed when you’ve got a 28-day period from when the last case was reported, and so the fact that that’s what we’re seeing in more of these clusters is extremely encouraging, and we do expect to be able to close off the other clusters. Media: At which point going forward—maybe in the next week—will we know if level 3 is working, if we have—are we looking—because there’s a two-week transmission period, obviously. So when will you be looking at case numbers and things, and will we know that Kiwis are obeying the rules and we’re not spreading COVID-19 during level 3? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, we’re continuing to look at the case numbers every day and provide that advice to the Government as to what the cases are telling us. It’s a mixture of—it’s looking really good. We’ve got very low case numbers, but at the same time we are seeing cases being reported. So it just reminds us that we do have to be cautious, and we will continue to be doing that for the next period that we’re in level 3 in order to be able to provide advice as to what level 2 might mean. Hon Grant Robertson: And it’s just important to remember that the key thing here is to break the chain of community transmission. We do not have evidence of widespread community transmission in New Zealand, so that is something that we should all be encouraged by. But as we see the cases come in we continue to look closely at them to understand everything we can about them, and, as we did when we were moving from level 4 to level 3, we want the most up-to-date information to inform the Government’s decision about that. That’s the information that we get provided every day by the Ministry of Health, and so while the signs remain and continue to be encouraging, we will be making that decision with the most up-to-date information. I’ll just come down the front here, where there was one. Media: [Inaudible] people receiving main benefits in the last week. What do you make of those numbers, and how much further can we expect that balloon, I guess, to bubble out? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, as I said last week when we were talking about this, it’s extremely distressing for every single New Zealander who loses their job and find themselves in a situation of going on the jobseeker benefit. What we’re doing is attempting to limit that as much as possible, and the wage subsidy scheme has done a great job of that, but we’ve been very clear from the start that the impact of this crisis will be more significant than the global financial crisis, and that did see unemployment rise sharply as well. What we have to do is work closely with all New Zealanders to support them not only to stay in work but be able to retrain to get new jobs and new skills, and support the sectors that will provide those. That will be a focus within the Budget. Media: Dr McElnay, on Wednesday, Dr Bloomfield urged all New Zealanders to get their flu shots, saying vaccines were widely available. However, a PHO that represents hundreds of doctors in Auckland has told its members that on advice of the health ministry, vaccine stocks will likely run out again next week. Why are you giving what appears to be misleading information to the public? Dr Caroline McElnay: We’ve seen a fantastic response to the influenza immunisation programme this year, and we’ve given out more vaccines than have ever been distributed. We continue to get more vaccine coming into the country, but there has been a request from the sector, as well as information that we provided to the sector, that if there are any potential for any delay in receiving vaccines that the sector have that information. So there was information that was given out to the sector to say we are working with PHARMAC to get the vaccine out there. We will get you the vaccine that you need, but be prepared that you may have not have that vaccine at the time that you actually are planning to use it. So that was a very specific request from the sector that they have that heads-up, but we do know that we’ve got more vaccine coming in, and we’re hoping that there won’t be any issue with any delay. Hon Grant Robertson: Just to be very clear about that, there are 700,000 vaccine doses around the country that have not yet been administered—so they are in the community. There is availability of flu vaccine. As at last week, 587,000 people had been vaccinated. That compares to 290,000 people on the same date in 2019. So with those 700,000 vaccines still available in the community to actually be administered, we are confident that we have the supplies we need. We’ve already vaccinated far more people than we would have in the past. What the communications that are coming through from the Ministry of Health indicate is that there is more vaccine on the way, and we’re asking— Media: No, it says that it will likely run out again next week. It’s not necessarily just that it’s— Hon Grant Robertson: Well, the communications we’ve had from the Ministry of Health are that there are 700,000 vaccines out there. There are more on the way. That’s simply a piece of information to the sector around the way in which the vaccines have already been delivered into the communities and what will be coming in the future. Media: Sorry, just to follow up on that—this PHO was saying they will likely run out again next week. That was the advice from the Ministry of Health, so how can Dr Bloomfield argue that they’re widely available? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, because they are widely available—because there are 700,000 vaccines in the community. What this is about—as we’ve discussed on quite a few times at these press conferences—is around the distribution within a DHB, and, clearly, if there is a particular PHO that’s saying this, then we need to be talking to that DHB about how those doses that are already out there can be administered. Media: One GP we’ve spoken to has cancelled 50 flu jab bookings for next week due to the uncertainty. Is that good enough, and doesn’t that just reaffirm the position from the Medical Association that the national flu campaign has been a complete debacle? Hon Grant Robertson: No, I don’t accept that at all. When you’ve got a situation where you’ve got 587,000 people being vaccinated compared with 290,000 at the same time last year, that actually represents a campaign that is out there and is working. Clearly, we need to continue to ensure that the distribution chains within our health system work well, but I actually think with that level of vaccination and a commitment that more is coming, we are continuing the kind of campaign that New Zealanders would expect. Thomas, we haven’t had any from you. Media: Dr McElnay, just a question from our news room: have you got an update on the number of suicides that have occurred since lockdown, and, if so, what is the policy regarding testing them for COVID-19, and is there a policy in terms of mental health checks on vulnerable patients during the alert levels? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t actually have information specifically around suicides, but we can provide that information for you. What I can say, though, is that as part of our surveillance strategy to make sure that we’re identifying and capturing any COVID-19 infections that might be out there, any sudden deaths that occur in the community that are subject to a coroner’s inquiry—that testing for COVID occurs if it is felt that that person could have died as a result of that. So that’s an extra piece of information that we have to tell us about COVID-19 out in the community. Media: Minister, just a question in terms of the business finance guarantee scheme: how much more risk are taxpayers going to be exposed to by removing that requirement to have a general security agreement, and do you expect that even if that requirement is removed, banks will still have a requirement themselves and take some security from businesses? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, at this time, our risk remains the 80 percent risk that we announced at the beginning. We’ve been clear that what we wanted from the scheme was for viable but vulnerable businesses to be supported. Clearly, there are some businesses that banks won’t support, and we mentioned that at start—for example, those who are on the watch list—but what we wanted from the scheme was for banks to apply it in such a way that businesses that perhaps they might have not processed previously they would, as long as they were still viable. In terms of what they will now do that we’ve removed the requirement for the general security agreement, it will still be up to banks, but, as I said at the start, we are continuing to look at further tweaks to the scheme. Media: Just a follow-up, in terms of the extra risk that taxpayers are taking on, if a bank—sorry. If a business collapses, then taxpayers might not be able to take that business owner’s house, which I know is—it’s an unfortunate and horrible situation, but you, no doubt, have to balance taxpayer risk as well as— Hon Grant Robertson: Bear in mind, the schemes are being delivered by the banks, so in the end it remains up to the bank to make decisions about what kind of security they will take on, but what we’re saying is the Government is not requiring that in terms of our 80 percent underwriting. But we’re not in a position of being the people who look at a particular type of security. I do think it’s really important. It is one of the reasons why we have put in place today the small business loan scheme—is because we want those smaller businesses, many of whom often are financed off the back, perhaps, of a second mortgage on their home, to get support that does not require them to concern themselves about that, and if they can pay it back within a year, it’s interest-free. It’s about cash flow for those small businesses that play such a big part in our economy. Media: I have a slightly indelicate question on behalf of a colleague. So thousands of people have been going to the beach, but councils have been told to keep toilets closed, which has seen people relieving themselves in the sand dunes. Can you please clear up the messages around allowing regional travel to beaches, but not opening the facilities to cope with that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think we’ll probably go back to the beginning here— that people need to show a sense of personal responsibility. I think we all know what’s right and wrong when it comes to relieving oneself at the beach. In terms of a general comment around what people should be doing, we continue to want them to stay close to home. Under level 3 there has been some relaxation to allow you to travel within your region, but that is for short-term recreation. It’s also to make sure that there are some further options available for people, but the first and best preference is to stay local. I could say some other things, but I won’t. [Interruption] Sorry, we’re just down the front, then we’ll come up here, Jenna. Media: Minister, Lawyers for Climate Change have written to you and other Ministers. They’re worried that the shovel-ready projects criteria doesn’t address things like gas emissions and the effects of climate change, which they’re warning could be unlawful. What assurances can you give to them that that is being considered in future decisions being made on these projects? Hon Grant Robertson: So the decisions on what projects we adopt will be made by Cabinet, and Cabinet will be operating under the plans that we’ve already announced, and one of the core ones of those is the importance of a transition to a low-carbon economy. So the decisions we make will be supportive of those goals that the Government has had from the beginning, and we showed that with our New Zealand Upgrade Programme, which had a mixture of projects, that—yes—did include some roading projects but it included rail. It included getting rid of some of those boilers in our schools and our hospitals. It includes cycling. It included walking projects. So that’s a sign, I think, you can see of the fact that when we think about infrastructure, we have in mind all of the things that matter: creating jobs, making sure we can transition to that low-carbon environment, growing productivity, and keeping the economy moving. We continue to balance those in our decisions about the infrastructure projects. Media: And just a question from one of our regional reporters: they’ve had a specific plea from West Coast mayors that they want to be allowed to go into level 2 sooner. What do you say to them—because they’re really struggling there at the moment. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, I think it’s really important that we continue to stay the course on level 3. New Zealanders know the great gains we made in level 4, and we need to lock those in through level 3, and that’s been because, as a country of 5 million people, we have decided, collectively, that we’re all in this together. And so I can understand in communities like the West Coast they’re saying “We want to get on with it.”— we all do—but we’ve got to stay the course in level 3. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we haven’t ruled out the possibility in the future that there could be regional differences, but for now this is something that we’re all in together. You know, I also do bear in mind that— and I’m sure the mayors of the West Coast will understand this—our very first death from COVID-19 was from someone on the West Coast. So I think it’s a reminder for all of us that this virus can spread, and spread easily, and that means that we have to stay vigilant under level 3. Jenna. Media: ANZ and mortgage brokers are warning more New Zealanders will default on their loans like mortgages in the coming months. Are you concerned about that? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I’m very concerned for all New Zealanders that they have the resources to be able to pay their mortgages, and that’s why one of the very early things that was agreed with banks was the mortgage deferral scheme. It’s why we’re continuing to provide a range of support through the tax system and through the small business cash flow support we announced today. So, you know, this is a situation where there’s going to be a big impact on the New Zealand economy, but the Government is doing all it can to support people to be able to pay their bills like their mortgages. Media: Have you been given any forecast on the number of defaults and the financial cost of that, and are you offering any help to banks to cover those losses— Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously, the business finance guarantee scheme is a significant contribution from the Government to carrying risk for those loans. The banks have very strong balance sheets in New Zealand, and while they’re under pressure—like all companies are—they are making arrangements with their customers right now for interest-only payments for deferral of mortgage payments. I don’t have specific information about the particular impacts of that, but we all know that this is an economic shock that’s going to affect a lot of New Zealanders. Media: Another slightly random question from a colleague— Hon Grant Robertson: The day for it. Media: —there’s a company down south who is creating T-shirts, and they’ve actually got Dr Bloomfield’s face on it with the words “Curve Crusher”. They’re using it for charity, though—$50,000 has actually been raised for Women’s Refuge. What do you think about this innovative idea, and would you consider buying one? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think, you know, it’s fantastic that New Zealanders, in a time of crisis like this, are raising money for a cause like Women’s Refuge, and I think we should all be really proud of the fact that in a time of crisis, people come together like that. I’m very conscious of the fact that Dr Bloomfield has become somewhat of a cult figure in New Zealand, and from time to time that means you end up on T-shirts and tea towels and so on. At this stage, I haven’t found the website address to make that order, and I’d have to make sure they had the right sizes available as well. Craig. Media: Dr McElnay, just a question on health workers with COVID-19. I think it was last weekend, there was a nurse at Burwood that was reported as positive. Do we have any details yet on how they got it? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have those details to hand, but those are certainly situations where we investigate fully to find out how they might have been exposed to the virus. Media: And is there a time line on the current investigation out of Waitematā—how long you expect that might take? Dr Caroline McElnay: We expect to get a further update later today. As I’ve said, the first case was notified over the weekend, so there was some initial investigation that happened there. Then, there was a case yesterday, and then again today. So there’s been extensive further testing, and we expect to get further results either today or tomorrow. Hon Grant Robertson: We’ll just take a couple more—Ben. Media: Minister, now that the final details around the Cannabis Legislation and Control Bill are released, will you be voting for it? Hon Grant Robertson: At a personal level, yes, I will be, in the referendum—that’s a decision and a position I’ve held for a very long time—but this is a personal choice for New Zealanders, and what the release of the bill means is we’re at the next stage of New Zealanders being able to make up their mind on it. One thing I would say—and this is a personal view—is, for me, it is not the most important issue that’s facing New Zealand or facing me, and while I have a moral stance on it, I’m one individual. Now is the opportunity for New Zealanders to understand the bill. There will be a large public education campaign run about it, which will enable people to understand it as much as possible. Media: Have you seen public polling that puts Labour at 55 percent at the moment? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I’m not interested in polls at all at the moment. Tova. Media: On that, though, the poll results have been— Hon Grant Robertson: Could be the same answer coming your way, but—yes? Media: —for the National Party—well, maybe if you could respond to the National Party on this, because the poll results for them are 29 percent, and the National Party—Simon Bridges is saying Labour should focus on getting New Zealand back to work, not leaking dodgy numbers. What’s your response to that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, we are focused completely on making sure that we support New Zealanders through COVID-19, and I’m very, very confident the poll coming into the public arena had nothing to do with the Labour Party. Media: Does 29 percent for National sound like dodgy numbers to you? Hon Grant Robertson: I’m just not interested in polls at the moment. Thomas. Media: Minister Robertson, just a question from our news room. You will have seen the pictures of a hundred people at a tangi in Canterbury. What would you expect police and health authorities to do about it, particularly in light of the fact that local police are saying they’re reluctant to police a tangi? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think everybody will understand just how difficult this issue is. For all of us, we’re going to have people in our lives who we know who, potentially, are going to be facing the loss of a family member or a friend at this time, and it’s incredibly hard. We’ve put the rules in place we had around limiting people who go to tangi or who go to funerals for good public health reasons. In the particular case that’s here, the family said about having a tangi with only 10 or fewer people attending, and it blew out to a larger number. That’s really disappointing. These rules have been put in place in consultation with groups within the Māori community in particular, and so we urge people in really difficult circumstances to stick to the rules here, and I’m sure the police will take a compassionate approach. But the rules are the rules, and people do need to stand by them. Media: Minister, I just have another question on the business finance guarantee scheme— Hon Grant Robertson: My favourite topic, so yes. Media: Yes—I love it. Will agricultural businesses be able to get loans under the scheme—is that what you’re saying? Hon Grant Robertson: That’s correct. So that’s the change that we made. Initially, they were taken out of the scheme because it was felt by the banks and ourselves that they were dealt with through other products that the banks might have, but we think, in order to make the scheme as valuable as possible, it’s time to open up to those businesses. Thanks everybody. Have a good weekend.
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health Watch the media conference.
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speaker: Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health Watch the media conference.
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speaker: Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference .
The daily COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference here. Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 13 April 2020
The daily COVID-19 media conference with government ministers and officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference here. Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 15 April 2020
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 15 April --- Section Separator --- PM : Good afternoon. It’s day 21 of our COVID-19 alert level 4 lockdown. I’ll hand over to the Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, for an update, then I’ll make the usual set of comments before taking questions. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today, our total number of new cases is 20, and this comprises six new confirmed cases and 14 probable cases. There are no further deaths to report. We now have 728 reported cases of people who have recovered from COVID-19 infection. That’s an increase of 100 on yesterday, and the new combined total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand Aotearoa is 1,386. Today, there are 13 people in hospital, and this includes three in ICU: one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. Two of these folk, in North Shore and Dunedin, are in a critical condition. Yesterday, there were 2,100 COVID-19 tests processed, with a rolling seven-day average now of 2,761, and the total number of tests completed is 66,499. I spoke last evening with district health board CEOs about the message I had conveyed to them around the need for us to increase testing following the Easter break. They’re all very aware of this and are actively working with their teams to increase testing, including the use of mobile testing in some places to reach specific communities and groups. There are now 16 significant COVID-19 clusters. That’s one more than yesterday. The new cluster is in Auckland and, again, is connected to an aged residential care facility. A reminder that a significant cluster is where there are 10 or more cases of COVID-19 that are connected. We’ll provide more details on that and other clusters on our website. I just also want to point out when you see our update on clusters, you will notice there has been an increase in the number of cases associated with clusters—actually, a higher number than the total number of new cases today—and this is because cases that were previously identified as not knowing what the origin was have now been associated with those clusters, and therefore that is reducing the number of cases for which we don’t know where they have come from, and this is good. Also, the 15 th cluster we talked about yesterday, which is also linked to an aged residential care facility—that was named yesterday by that facility itself: St Margaret’s rest home in Te Atatū, in Auckland. That facility is working very closely with the DHB to contain the spread as our other aged residential care facilities do. It’s not an outbreak that is confined to that facility; it has some people inside the facility and some in the community. I want to briefly update some further analysis I commissioned around healthcare workers who have been infected with COVID-19. We will update the figures on our website today, and the total number is 115, which is 8 percent of total confirmed and probable cases. What I can say from that analysis is that there are only a small number, less than five, where we can confirm that the cause of the infection was that the worker was infected by the patient they were caring for. So, for example, 22 percent of the healthcare worker cases are because of overseas travel—they had, in fact, been overseas recently. Furthermore, from yesterday’s total, which was 107, I wanted to know how many had been infected outside the workplace, and that was because they might have travelled overseas or they were part of a community-based cluster, and the answer to that was 56. So over half of those healthcare workers have actually been infected because of travel or they’re a close contact of a case outside the workplace or part of a cluster outside of the workplace. I wanted to know how many had been infected in the course of their work, and the total there was 46, and 39 of those are in aged residential care facilities and are part of the extant clusters we have there. In just five instances, it was not immediately clear and hasn’t been worked out where the infection has come from. I think what all this means is, pleasingly, there is only a relatively small number of cases involving healthcare workers that are due to transmission from a patient—or a resident, in the case of ARC —to the worker. In the majority of those transmissions or clusters inside healthcare settings, more staff have been infected than patients. So I’m requesting ongoing reporting and breakdowns of this data, and I think what it does show overall that there’s been a huge amount of work across the system to ensure staff are protected. That includes access to—and appropriate use of—PPE and very good infection prevention control, and I want to commend the efforts of all those involved. That’s all I have. Over to you there, Prime Minister. PM: Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Today, I can confirm that myself, Government Ministers, and Public Service chief executives will take a 20 percent pay cut for the next six months as we acknowledge New Zealanders who are reliant on wage subsidies, taking pay cuts, and losing their jobs as a result of COVID-19’s global pandemic. We feel acutely the struggle that many New Zealanders are facing, and so, too, do the people that I work with on a daily basis. And while it, in itself, won’t shift the Government’s overall fiscal position, it is about leadership, and I acknowledge my colleagues, both in the executive but also the colleagues we work with in the Public Service, for the decision that was taken today. But it also stands alongside many actions taken by many people—private sector, citizens—to tackle the health and economic challenges of COVID-19, including the more than $23 billion economic package including the wage subsidy, which has paid out over $9 billion to 1.5 million New Zealanders, which MSD has worked tirelessly to make sure was reaching the people who needed it the most; neighbours looking out for one another; rent freezes; and landlords who are supporting tenants; things like the winter energy payment and benefits that are helping those who are on restricted incomes to keep warmer and well; New Zealanders who are staying home to save lives; the student army delivering groceries to over-65s; and Ministry of Health officials in charge of mandatory quarantine, which I received a message about their professionalism and exceptional work. So many examples of people showing what others mean to them and doing their bit in our united fight to stamp out COVID-19, and showing a little bit of kindness along the way. If there were ever a time to close the gap between groups of people across New Zealand in different positions, it is now. Of course, many people in our public sector are our front-line essential workers: nurses, police, healthcare professionals. We are not suggesting pay cuts here, and nor would New Zealanders find that appropriate. Rather, I am responsible for the executive branch—myself and Ministers. This is where we can take action, and that is why we have. I’m happy to take your questions. Media: Prime Minister, what details can you give us about the media rescue package and when that might be coming out? PM: It will be considered shortly by Ministers. What I do want to just really signal early on is that there will be more than one tranche. There are things that we want to do with some immediacy, but there is some longer-term work that will be at a larger—a different scale to that first tranche. That will be further down the track. We are working on fairly tight time frames, though, because we do see the issues facing the media now. Ministers have been in contact with outlets to discuss with them their relative position to make sure that we’re not doing anything too late to be able to play a role in the ongoing journalism that we require right now. Media: Will this fast track the merger between RNZ and TVNZ or have any impact on that timetable? PM: We’ll see those—when it comes to Public Service broadcasting, that I see as a different space that is feeling, obviously, different pressures than what we’re seeing from those who have received or seen a reduction to the scale that we have, of course, of commercial advertising. TVNZ’s slightly different, of course, but they’re also in a different boat when it comes to the role of Government and the relationship there with TVNZ. But no, these are things that we are seeing as separate packages to the work we’re already doing around increasing and supporting public sector broadcasting. Media: Can I ask about the Ministers’ pay, and then a follow-up on the media package as well— PM: Public Service broadcasting, I should say. Media: What about—why not send a directive to the Remuneration Authority to have a pay cut across the board for all MPs, and what about your Labour backbenchers? PM: Yeah, so the mechanism that we will use—this is an in principle decision around Ministers and chief executives. We’ll then work through the way that that will be enacted for the legislation, of course, because you’re right to point out the Remuneration Authority and the legislation that underpins that authority is the way that we would need to make this happen. The one thing to keep in mind, though, is that that group covers a wide range of individuals, including the likes of the judiciary, and there are different rules that can apply around changes that can be made there. So it’s not a simple matter of making these changes on behalf of everyone, and nor is that something we are able to do. We’ve made a decision about ourselves. I absolutely accept that this is not going to change the Government books, but for us it was about leadership. A lot of people are taking a huge hit right now. I do not want the people who feel that to be the people on the front line—our low- and middle-income earners. It should be about leadership, and that means the people at the top. Media : How did you reach the 20 percent figure? PM : Ultimately, this is something that we just had to make a determination on where it should sit. We felt 20 percent was the right place. I know that some people, however, are in a position of not having work; so in many ways this was always just going to be an acknowledgment of the hit that all New Zealanders are taking right now—many New Zealanders are taking right now—but we settled on 20 percent just being an acknowledgment that we could make as leaders. Media : One of the concerns that were raised by the chiefs of the major independent media organisations today at committee was the amount of money that the Government is spending on social media advertising. How much money is the Government spending on social media advertising versus local media platforms? And will you redirect that advertising spend? PM : You’re right to point out that we do do both. Any New Zealander right now would see, for instance, a significant amount of advertising on our TV channels for the Unite COVID-19 messaging. But, while I don’t have the social media figures in front of me, what I would say is we do need to be present where people are. And so that means that we are behaving in the same way that many private enterprises are. There is advertising on those social media platforms, but that has not been at the expense of advertising in those traditional platforms that we have utilised in the past. Media : Given the promulgation of fake news and misleading information on some of those social media platforms, one of the chiefs this morning pointed out that the Government is effectively—I’m paraphrasing—propping up these social media platforms that are behaving in a way that isn’t as ethical as traditional media platforms do. PM : All the more reason for us to make sure that there are trusted sources of information on those platforms. Whether we like it or not, it’s where the public are, and we need to make sure that we access them. Separate again is the issue of making sure that journalism can survive in that new environment. We can’t stem the tide of people’s new behaviour. What we can do is ensure that journalism survives in spite of that. Media : Dr Bloomfield, the death in Invercargill: we understand it was a man who was in self-isolation who had been diagnosed with COVID-19. Why is he not being counted as one of the deaths? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I am aware of that death, and we are seeking further information at the moment, and until I have full information, we’re not in a position to confirm the cause of death of that man. If we’re confident it is from COVID-19, then this would be the first death in the community from COVID-19. We will classify it as a death, but I’m just awaiting further information to be able to confirm the cause of death. Media : Do you expect there will be more deaths at home, or are you hoping that most of them will be in a hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, it’s hard to say, really. We do have—most of our people with active infection are at home in self-isolation; only a small proportion are in hospital. Media : Can I just come back to the media stuff, so how would you characterise the package when you’re talking about there are going to be different tranches of it? What’s your message to commercial media, who—you know, the message was very clear this morning: they’re in a very, very perilous situation. PM : Yes, and, as we have really heard, exacerbated by COVID-19 rather than as a result of it. Really, I think what we will be coming out with won’t come as a surprise to some of those outlets, because we are in conversation with them around what is necessary for us, again, not to create a false environment where some of the new realities don’t exist but to ensure that we still have robust journalism and access to information for the public. First tranche is that which is really focused on some immediate responses, and then, not too far down the track, I would say some weeks later, we will then have a second tranche. Media : Does this put you in the position where you might look at overriding some of those Commerce Commission decisions? Are we in a space where some of those past positions might now change? PM : Again, I want to act with caution about getting ahead of too much of what we might say in the future. But, again, what we will be saying I don’t think will come as too much of a surprise, because there is a good degree of communication, in spite of the fact that it’s a competitive environment between our Minister for broadcasting and those outlets. Media : Prime Minister, the New Zealand Māori Council has urged the Government to work more with Māori businesses and industry to develop a Māori specific employment and business growth approach. What do you make of that? PM : Oh, I have no hesitation to say that that’s exactly the kind of thing we can and should be doing. As I touched on a little bit yesterday, whilst we’ve been taking a bit of a sector approach, you know, what do we do to make sure that we’re supporting the new future of tourism, our arts in cultural sector in particular—how do we support them in these new environments—I also see that for the Māori economy, that we should be also engaging directly on how do we make sure that in those areas where there’s been challenges, we’re addressing them but where there’s opportunities we make the most of it as well, particularly food production. Media : And when it comes to growing the Māori economy post-lockdown, who will be leading that from the Government’s perspective? Will it be the relevant Ministers or will the Māori caucus play that more sensitive role? PM : Our Māori caucus always has input into these issues, without question, but we also use our Ministers to have some lead in particular areas, so I expect that for something specific there, Minister Mahuta would be involved, but at a regional economic development level we’ve also been using Minister Jones and Minister Twyford. But our Māori caucus are very much on the ground giving us the feedback about what will work in their communities, and they play an active and important role. Media : Dr Bloomfield, you said yesterday that you’d look into concerns by nurses at Burwood Hospital’s COVID-19 ward that they didn’t have feet or hair covers, so can you give the New Zealand public a categorical assurance that nursing staff on that ward will always have the full kit, including foot and hair covers and, if they don’t, what’s your plan? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can give a categorical assurance about is that we have got a really good process for ensuring we have supply of PPE out to our health sector, and that’s our job as the Ministry of Health. I think we’ve gripped that up. We’ve got good stocks of PPE. We have nationalised the distribution out to DHBs to ensure they’re getting enough. What I’m not in a position to do is to be able to provide an assurance about access of individual health workers to PPE in individual circumstances, because we have over 100,000 health workers. What I can also say is that any health worker that has a concern about access to or use of PPE is able to and should escalate their concerns within their organisation. There are very good processes for them to do that. The unions have ability to support that escalation process, and I know for a fact that any chief executive would take any concerns seriously and look into them. So that’s the assurance I can provide. Media : Thank you. There’s mounting international evidence as well saying that wider use of masks are key to helping reduce the risk of spread because many people are asymptomatic. An adviser to the World Health Organization has stated, “I think that wearing a mask is equally effective or more effective than distancing.” So why aren’t you advising the New Zealand public to start using masks in public settings like supermarkets? What could possibly be wrong with issuing this advice as we potentially move into level 3? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So we are continuing to look at the evidence around the use masks and particularly the experience in different countries, and if we think they’ve got an important role to play, we will definitely move in that direction. I think, again, as I’ve said before, there’s still a range of views about when they are of greater benefit than not, and so we’ll keep an open mind about the evidence. Media : Does the ministry know how coronavirus got into St Margaret’s rest home? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have the information about that as yet, but what I can say is that some of the cases are outside the rest home and some are inside, and what we have seen with all of our aged residential care facility outbreaks is that they have been introduced by someone coming in from the outside, whether it’s a worker or, earlier on, a visitor. The way that it was introduced may well have been because someone who was in the rest home also was infected out and is part of that community base, part of that cluster. Media : Would you be concerned if it was a staff member who brought it in, or would that make sense as something that happens? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we’re concerned about it—whatever the cause we’re concerned about it and we’re most concerned about finding out how it got in and, of course, stopping any further spread. And just to go back to my earlier comment that all of our facilities are working incredibly closely with the local public health units and DHBs to stop that further spread. Media : Just back on PPE, Dr Bloomfield, should nurses be reusing masks, goggles, visors? I understand that’s been recommended by the Ministry of Health but the WHO says that they only be reused when there’s a shortage, which I understand we don’t have. Bloomfield : I think there’s a distinction between recycling and reusing, and there is some work that’s looking at—that we’re not sponsoring, but there is some work looking at whether you can clean and reuse PPE. And I agree with the WHO—you should only do that if you have a shortage, which we don’t. I think there’s a distinction between that and using PPE for a period of time; for example, our nurses who might be doing swabbing in CBACs don’t need to change their PPE between each patient they might be swabbing. So they will be using it for a period and the important thing is to change it after a period of time, particularly the masks because they get damp and they need to be disposed of. Media : So nurses should be getting very clear information from their DHB about when it is appropriate and when it’s not to be reusing or recycling it? Bloomfield : Well, I wouldn’t expect they would be reusing or recycling it. There may be some elements of the PPE that you could use for a longer period of time than others. Media : You may not have the exact numbers on this, but, of cases in recent days, how many of these are infections in new bubbles, as opposed to cases in an extant cluster or spread within a bubble from one infected person? Do have an idea of how many of these are in new bubbles? PM : The majority today are cluster-related, as I understand—I believe, the vast majority. Sorry, we might come back to you on the breakdown. Do you want it over a couple of days or just for today? Media : Just a sense of, in recent days, is the virus still spreading between bubbles in the community or has it been clamped down on? PM : Yeah, my recollection is five or less for most of these different days that we’ve had on reporting of cases, and then with a bit more time sometimes those have then been assigned to clusters, but I’ll let the Director-General comment on it. I think what it’s fair to say, as a general rule of thumb—a handful; a very, very small number. With time, often then we are able to identify, but that’s exactly what we need to be looking for, though. That is when it can tell us that there might be something else going on, and so that’s why it’s so critical we do that investigatory work. Bloomfield : That’s right, Prime Minister. And so what we’re doing at the moment is working our way back to look at every new case since 1 April to determine that they have either all been linked to an existing cluster or a close contact of a case or overseas travel, and so far what we’ve found—and I think that’s why you’re seeing the proportion of unexplained cause, which is right from the start, has gone from 11 to 10 percent, which represents another 13 cases or so where they have found the source and been able to attribute it to an existing cluster and case. So we’re working our way backwards and we will also be examining every case every day now by the end of the day to find out exactly what the source is, and if we’re not sure, then to put a wide ring-fence around that and really go in and investigate it closely. PM : One of the issues of us coming down and giving you the results in such close proximity to when we receive them is we don’t always have that final information when we give them to you. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you tell us where Dr Verrall’s contact tracing report is and when we might expect to see it? Bloomfield : Yes, it’s with me and my team who’ve worked up and I just met with them again this morning to go through the response to it, and we’re furiously responding to the recommendations; work under way. The plan is to put that in front of Ministers in the next 24 hours—yes, tomorrow—and once they’ve had a chance to look at it, then we’ll make it public, as well as some information about what we’re doing in response. PM : We had a bit of a discussion over whether or not we’d put the report out without the response, but I think immediately the question becomes what have we done, so we’re putting it both out at the same time, but, I imagine, fairly soon after Ministers having received it we’ll just put it into the public domain. Media : With your investigation into rest homes, will this overlap with the Chief Ombudsman’s? Bloomfield : So I spoke with the Chief Ombudsman this morning—actually, just in particular to confirm with him about the arrangements he’s got for his staff to go in to make sure they’re well protected, and I was very satisfied with the arrangements he’s put in place. Obviously, his findings I would like to inform our work, and also make sure whatever he finds and what we find from our review is used to continue to strengthen and improve the protection for staff and residents within our aged residential care facilities. Media : For the first time, recovered cases is now outnumbering the number of people currently suffering the disease; that must be significant? PM : Yes. Media : I imagine that will stay the case, as well, given we’ve got a smaller amount of new cases. So does that actually mean anything in terms of the health system? Can you now downscale the [ Inaudible ] way? PM : Probably more a question for the Director-General. Bloomfield : And the question was, can we downscale the—? Media : Well, I mean, what does it mean for you in terms of the actual fighting of the disease—anything, or is it just a number? Bloomfield : Well, it really reflects that we’ve had a much smaller number of cases over the last two weeks, recalling that recovered cases are people for whom the symptom onset was at least 10 days ago and they’ve had no symptoms for at least 48 hours, so it just really reflects that the bulk of our cases were in that February-March period and they’ve now been classified as recovered. What I would say, though, is that fundamental to our work now—and over coming weeks and months—will be having ongoing, very vigorous testing; and very timely follow-up and contact tracing. So we’re not downscaling; if anything, we’re sort of filling in any—identifying and filling in any gaps in those processes, to make sure they’re gold standard. Media : Could it be that the health system is currently experiencing the bulk now, and it will only get easier? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think it is experiencing the bulk of the current peak that we had, and we’ve passed that peak, but not out of the woods. So, yes, there will be—I think—less pressure now on the health system over coming weeks. But, of course, what we need to do is ensure the health system can, essentially, revert to providing as much care as possible for people, while still maintaining its ability to respond to any COVID-19 cases. Media : A business owner who’s had their rent raised says this morning’s announcement was a token gesture, it’s not addressed the issue at all, and asking landlords to do the right thing has done nothing. Why did you not implement a rent freeze for commercial properties? PM : Because we couldn’t. So the Residential Tenancy Act gives us different abilities that the Property Act does not. But what we wanted to do was create the same kind of additional buffer that we have for those in residential properties, by saying that essentially the ability to remove a tenant, really widening that from a 10-day to a 30-day—and again, clearly send the message here, “Be a good citizen.” You know, it is just utterly unfathomable, in this situation, to see some of what we’ve seen—including increases in commercial rents—at a time like this. I’d also just ask someone to think about what happens if you then do remove someone from your commercial property? Who is going to tenant that in the middle of level 4, let alone any other level right now? So take a long view, work with your tenant, and actually just be a good human being. Media : Dr Bloomfield, did the Ministry of Health provide any advice to Ministers, or other Government departments, on what the public health effects might be under the various scenarios that Treasury presented? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The scenarios presented yesterday? Media : Yep. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So we didn’t provide any specific advice, but our advice is obviously informing action right across Government around, in particular, preparing for stepping out of level 4 down to level 3. A public health view of that would be yes, we would want to do that very quickly, because we want to get the economy going again and ensure people have employment, income, access to education, and so on. Media : There are many New Zealanders in immigration detention in Australia, and the Human Rights Commission there have said that all those should be released, just because it’s a COVID-19 hotspot. Have you got any concerns around that, and have you talked to Scott Morrison about those issues? PM : Look, I haven’t spoken to him specifically about that issue. But again, that is entirely within the mandate and the management of the Australian Government. It’s not an issue that we have any direct control over. My expectation is that, obviously, within the Australian Government, they’ll be working hard to make sure that COVID is contained in all of its environments, just in the same way that New Zealand is. Media : In terms of the Pacific community, are you confident that you are capturing the full rate of infection, or not, in the community if most of the positive cases—are they still related to the Marist cluster, or other infections elsewhere in the Pacific community? PM : In terms of numbers, 62 individuals who identify as being Pasifika have had COVID-19. So that is amongst the lowest of the ethnicities that we are breaking down as part of our reporting. What I can’t tell you is what percentage of those will have been from the Marist cluster. But I imagine a number would have. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, a good number. One of the things we’re also looking for, of course, is the rate of lab testing amongst Pacific communities. I said yesterday we were doing another extract of the lab data—it came in later yesterday, so we’re just analysing that, but we’ll provide that today. We’ll be looking for high rates of testing and low positivity rates. Media : So given the low numbers amongst Pasifika, which on face value is a really good thing, does that, though, give confidence that you are picking up the true rates of infection? Is there anything that would give you any concerns about that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It gives me some confidence, and I’d like to get a higher degree of confidence with the increased testing this week in, for example, South Auckland—to make sure we’re getting good rates of testing amongst Pacific communities. Media : Prime Minister, have you been in touch with any of the families who have lost a loved one as a result of COVID-19? PM : No, I haven’t. I mean, most families I’ve noticed just the—you know, the byline around respecting privacy. After a bit of time, I imagine that is something that I’ll look to do, but I have really tried to just give them the distance and the space that families would generally want at a time like this. Media : Dr Bloomfield, just to clarify, you’re part of that group taking a 20 percent pay cut? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, definitely. PM : What I should add is just before coming down here, I did advise the Leader of the Opposition of the decision that had been made by Ministers, which, of course, chief executives were already, obviously, aware of that offer and decision as well. They were a part of that. I made it known to him, and he has indicated that he will be joining in this initiative as well. Media : What do you make of President Trump’s decision to suspend funding for the World Health Organization? PM : Oh, sorry. Was that for me or— Media : Yes, it was. PM : Yes. Look, my view and the view of New Zealand and those, of course, who engage directly with the World Health Organization is that it’s an incredibly important body. At a time like this where we need to be sharing information, where we need to have advice that we can rely on, the World Health Organization has provided that, and we will continue to support it, and we will continue to make our contribution. Perhaps Dr Bloomfield may like to comment, as someone who had a close association with the World Health Organization. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just to reiterate the point you made, I think. You know, the global response to this pandemic will require a strong World Health Organization, so it behoves all of us, I think, to—and New Zealand, I know, will continue to play its part, supporting the organisation actively both globally and also in our region and across the Pacific. Media : Can I ask a few questions on behalf of others? Thank you. First, to Dr Bloomfield: how far back does the stag-do cluster date back to, and is that cluster linked to a prominent New Zealander? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I have to say I don’t know in the first case and I have no idea on the second. Media : And Prime Minister, what’s your advice to parents that have sat down to home school their children for the first time today? PM : Well, I’ve actually been getting a little bit of wider family feedback, actually, from others who have been watching as their children have been perhaps engaging in the broadcast that has been put out on two free-to-air channels today. The one thing I would really say is: don’t put too much pressure on yourselves as parents to be teachers. Yes, I absolutely appreciate that you’re the ones facilitating that, and there’s quite a burden that comes with that, but, as Nigel Latta has said, your kids will be having more of an educational experience than you probably appreciate right now. These are extraordinary times. Don’t be too hard on yourselves. They will be learning, even when you may not notice it. Media : And the catchcry that you kind of issued, “Go hard and go early.”, was used to help get us into level 4. What’s your approach for New Zealand coming out of level 4? PM : Well, obviously, that’s not a decision we’ve yet taken. So I guess my catchcry now would just be: let’s stay the course. We are doing things differently to others, and we’re seeing results that are different to others. Very few countries have got their numbers down as low as we have, so there’s few to learn from at this point, other than ourselves. So I would really encourage New Zealanders: we don’t need to constantly compare to other places—we’ll do it our way. Media : How different will level 3 look this time around compared to what it did three weeks ago, those two days that we were in level 3? PM : Obviously, it was brief. We’ve got very broad parameters that people will already see in the public domain. Tomorrow, we’ll be giving a lot more detail around that, but it will still require us to continue to reduce down our contact with one another. Media : You mentioned in your opening remarks that the numbers in the clusters had gone up because people had moved out of that unknown category. What is that unknown category at now? Is it reducing quite a lot, and is it taking quite a bit of time to contact trace those people in particular? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the proportion that is unknown is down to 10 percent. So just over a week ago, it was 18 percent of cases. But that’s 10 percent of all cases right from the start. What I’m really interested in is, in the ones that have happened in the last two weeks and that happen over this coming week, what are the proportion where it’s unknown and we can’t link them to existing clusters and cases. So I think it’s that proportion that is the most relevant, and as soon as I’ve got some data on that, I will share that. Media : So in terms of that 10 percent, though, are there some cases in there that have been so long now that you just may never actually be able to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Correct. PM : But I think it’s a good point to make, differentiating for those cases that were, for instance, well over two weeks ago versus those that are in the last two weeks, because lockdown helps us reduce down the chances of transmission of those unknowns elsewhere, but if we have it in these last two weeks, that’s what we really need to pay attention to. I believe that, of the 20 cases today, 19 of them have been linked to clusters, as I understand. So that gives you a sense that those numbers are smaller now, but important none the less. Media : There are some scientists in New Zealand who are working, or want to work, on a cure for COVID-19, and they would like some Government help on this. What is your message to them? Is this something you would invest in? Some sort of local— PM : My understanding is that Health is actually working with the WHO and the Health Research Council on responses to COVID. I’ll let Dr Bloomfield respond to that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So just a quick comment: the Health Research Council has done a call for proposals, and I understand that they’ll be making announcements later this week on the research that has met their requirements and that they will be funding. Media : Linked to that, do you have any concerns that New Zealand will be quite far down on the pecking order when it comes to vaccines? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I’m not concerned about it, because we will make sure we’re not, and I think there are a couple of ways we can do that. Predominantly, that will be making sure we are working very closely with Australia, which is undertaking research. There may be some vaccine research that we can also do here, and I think we will look to work really closely with Australia around research, development, and then production of a vaccine. Media : Dr Bloomfield, we’ve been talking about surveillance testing, or sentinel testing, for weeks now, but we still haven’t actually seen that programme being rolled out. How far away is it? And why is it taking so long? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’d say we’re doing it now. The testing we’re doing now is, effectively, population-wide sentinel testing, and that includes wide testing, having a low threshold for testing, and specific efforts to target groups—for example, through mobile testing going out to find cases. So, arguably, and my view is, at the moment we are now doing what I would call population-wide, across the country sentinel testing. So, if you think about yesterday’s confirmed number of seven cases and 2,100 tests done, it’s a positivity rate of under 0.3 percent. So, effectively, we are testing to find any case out there, which is sentinel testing. Media : But you’re not going to launch a formal programme of sentinel testing? You’ll sort of widen your own? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There will be—once we move down into level 3, there will be some ongoing testing, which, again, some of which will be sentinel testing and some of which will be specific case finding, or cluster management, which is part of our overall surveillance, which includes documenting influenza-like illness calls to Healthline, visits to general practice for influenza-like illness. There is the app, the flu tracker, which, interestingly—and, again, we saw this yesterday is also happening in Australia—the prevalence of people with influenza-like symptoms has dropped off through all those surveillance mechanisms that we have over the last week or two. PM : Dr Bloomfield, perhaps you could help me with my recollection as well. Yesterday, when asked the same question about sentinel testing, my recollection is that it numbers in the hundreds—sentinel testing—whereas, obviously, the scale— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. Usually, Prime Minister, there’s 270 tests a week done for influenza, and we’re doing—well, yesterday—2,100 tests for people with any respiratory symptoms. Media : Just to clarify the point around the media at select committee this morning, is the Government considering redirecting that advertising away from those global platforms like Facebook and Google? PM : We will continue to advertise in places where New Zealanders are. We still have an obligation, for instance, through campaigns like the one we’ve run on COVID-19, to actually be where New Zealanders are accessing news and information. But we are also advertising on those more traditional platforms as well, and we will continue with that. Advertising and the way that Government uses advertising is part of our wider consideration, but it doesn’t mean that we won’t continue to be in places where Kiwis are. Media : What about political advertising? Isn’t that a different thing? It doesn’t have the public-good aspect. And should that continue to be put through— PM : Political advertising will be a decision made by individual parties, and so that will really be a matter for them. Obviously, in those cases politicians will often just be a part of the community as well. So it has a different lens to it. Media : Do you see any merit in President Trump’s reasons for suspending WHO funding? He, basically, said that they were being too kind to China and hadn’t kind of stopped people doing travel bans early enough? PM : No. Media : I know you were loath to dignify it with a response—the whack 5G conspiracy the other day—but given that people are now destroying telecommunications towers, what message would you like— PM : Used for 4G. Media : What message would you like to send to those who are promulgating that conspiracy theory? PM : Don’t. Maybe I’ll just leave it to the facial expressions of Dr Bloomfield. OK, we’ll take a last question—down the back. Media : Dr Bloomfield and the Prime Minister, if you’d like: what do you make of the idea that’s appeared and disseminated yesterday and in recent weeks that the virus isn’t as bad as people are saying it is, because it will largely only kill people who would have been likely to die anyways? PM : Firstly, say that to someone who’s lost a loved one. In fact, that’s probably the only thing I’ll say on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Two comments on this. First, I think just yesterday WHO Director-General Tedros talked about how much worse this virus is than the Swine Flu virus; I think he said 10 times worse than the virus that caused the pandemic in 2009. And, secondly, the deaths we’ve seen around the world are not confined to older people and people with pre-existing conditions; in fact, we have seen younger adults who are otherwise perfectly healthy die from this virus. They are not immune, and I think that’s been a really clear message from those who have had much greater outbreaks in their countries—is to try and get that message out. This is a tricky virus. It’s by no means not a problem in younger people, and therefore it behoves all of us to do everything we can, not just to protect our older people and those with pre-existing conditions but actually to stop unnecessary deaths across our population. PM : OK. Thank you, everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Good afternoon. It’s day 21 of our COVID-19 alert level 4 lockdown. I’ll hand over to the Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, for an update, then I’ll make the usual set of comments before taking questions. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today, our total number of new cases is 20, and this comprises six new confirmed cases and 14 probable cases. There are no further deaths to report. We now have 728 reported cases of people who have recovered from COVID-19 infection. That’s an increase of 100 on yesterday, and the new combined total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand Aotearoa is 1,386. Today, there are 13 people in hospital, and this includes three in ICU: one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. Two of these folk, in North Shore and Dunedin, are in a critical condition. Yesterday, there were 2,100 COVID-19 tests processed, with a rolling seven-day average now of 2,761, and the total number of tests completed is 66,499. I spoke last evening with district health board CEOs about the message I had conveyed to them around the need for us to increase testing following the Easter break. They’re all very aware of this and are actively working with their teams to increase testing, including the use of mobile testing in some places to reach specific communities and groups. There are now 16 significant COVID-19 clusters. That’s one more than yesterday. The new cluster is in Auckland and, again, is connected to an aged residential care facility. A reminder that a significant cluster is where there are 10 or more cases of COVID-19 that are connected. We’ll provide more details on that and other clusters on our website. I just also want to point out when you see our update on clusters, you will notice there has been an increase in the number of cases associated with clusters—actually, a higher number than the total number of new cases today—and this is because cases that were previously identified as not knowing what the origin was have now been associated with those clusters, and therefore that is reducing the number of cases for which we don’t know where they have come from, and this is good. Also, the 15 th cluster we talked about yesterday, which is also linked to an aged residential care facility—that was named yesterday by that facility itself: St Margaret’s rest home in Te Atatū, in Auckland. That facility is working very closely with the DHB to contain the spread as our other aged residential care facilities do. It’s not an outbreak that is confined to that facility; it has some people inside the facility and some in the community. I want to briefly update some further analysis I commissioned around healthcare workers who have been infected with COVID-19. We will update the figures on our website today, and the total number is 115, which is 8 percent of total confirmed and probable cases. What I can say from that analysis is that there are only a small number, less than five, where we can confirm that the cause of the infection was that the worker was infected by the patient they were caring for. So, for example, 22 percent of the healthcare worker cases are because of overseas travel—they had, in fact, been overseas recently. Furthermore, from yesterday’s total, which was 107, I wanted to know how many had been infected outside the workplace, and that was because they might have travelled overseas or they were part of a community-based cluster, and the answer to that was 56. So over half of those healthcare workers have actually been infected because of travel or they’re a close contact of a case outside the workplace or part of a cluster outside of the workplace. I wanted to know how many had been infected in the course of their work, and the total there was 46, and 39 of those are in aged residential care facilities and are part of the extant clusters we have there. In just five instances, it was not immediately clear and hasn’t been worked out where the infection has come from. I think what all this means is, pleasingly, there is only a relatively small number of cases involving healthcare workers that are due to transmission from a patient—or a resident, in the case of ARC —to the worker. In the majority of those transmissions or clusters inside healthcare settings, more staff have been infected than patients. So I’m requesting ongoing reporting and breakdowns of this data, and I think what it does show overall that there’s been a huge amount of work across the system to ensure staff are protected. That includes access to—and appropriate use of—PPE and very good infection prevention control, and I want to commend the efforts of all those involved. That’s all I have. Over to you there, Prime Minister. PM: Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Today, I can confirm that myself, Government Ministers, and Public Service chief executives will take a 20 percent pay cut for the next six months as we acknowledge New Zealanders who are reliant on wage subsidies, taking pay cuts, and losing their jobs as a result of COVID-19’s global pandemic. We feel acutely the struggle that many New Zealanders are facing, and so, too, do the people that I work with on a daily basis. And while it, in itself, won’t shift the Government’s overall fiscal position, it is about leadership, and I acknowledge my colleagues, both in the executive but also the colleagues we work with in the Public Service, for the decision that was taken today. But it also stands alongside many actions taken by many people—private sector, citizens—to tackle the health and economic challenges of COVID-19, including the more than $23 billion economic package including the wage subsidy, which has paid out over $9 billion to 1.5 million New Zealanders, which MSD has worked tirelessly to make sure was reaching the people who needed it the most; neighbours looking out for one another; rent freezes; and landlords who are supporting tenants; things like the winter energy payment and benefits that are helping those who are on restricted incomes to keep warmer and well; New Zealanders who are staying home to save lives; the student army delivering groceries to over-65s; and Ministry of Health officials in charge of mandatory quarantine, which I received a message about their professionalism and exceptional work. So many examples of people showing what others mean to them and doing their bit in our united fight to stamp out COVID-19, and showing a little bit of kindness along the way. If there were ever a time to close the gap between groups of people across New Zealand in different positions, it is now. Of course, many people in our public sector are our front-line essential workers: nurses, police, healthcare professionals. We are not suggesting pay cuts here, and nor would New Zealanders find that appropriate. Rather, I am responsible for the executive branch—myself and Ministers. This is where we can take action, and that is why we have. I’m happy to take your questions. Media: Prime Minister, what details can you give us about the media rescue package and when that might be coming out? PM: It will be considered shortly by Ministers. What I do want to just really signal early on is that there will be more than one tranche. There are things that we want to do with some immediacy, but there is some longer-term work that will be at a larger—a different scale to that first tranche. That will be further down the track. We are working on fairly tight time frames, though, because we do see the issues facing the media now. Ministers have been in contact with outlets to discuss with them their relative position to make sure that we’re not doing anything too late to be able to play a role in the ongoing journalism that we require right now. Media: Will this fast track the merger between RNZ and TVNZ or have any impact on that timetable? PM: We’ll see those—when it comes to Public Service broadcasting, that I see as a different space that is feeling, obviously, different pressures than what we’re seeing from those who have received or seen a reduction to the scale that we have, of course, of commercial advertising. TVNZ’s slightly different, of course, but they’re also in a different boat when it comes to the role of Government and the relationship there with TVNZ. But no, these are things that we are seeing as separate packages to the work we’re already doing around increasing and supporting public sector broadcasting. Media: Can I ask about the Ministers’ pay, and then a follow-up on the media package as well— PM: Public Service broadcasting, I should say. Media: What about—why not send a directive to the Remuneration Authority to have a pay cut across the board for all MPs, and what about your Labour backbenchers? PM: Yeah, so the mechanism that we will use—this is an in principle decision around Ministers and chief executives. We’ll then work through the way that that will be enacted for the legislation, of course, because you’re right to point out the Remuneration Authority and the legislation that underpins that authority is the way that we would need to make this happen. The one thing to keep in mind, though, is that that group covers a wide range of individuals, including the likes of the judiciary, and there are different rules that can apply around changes that can be made there. So it’s not a simple matter of making these changes on behalf of everyone, and nor is that something we are able to do. We’ve made a decision about ourselves. I absolutely accept that this is not going to change the Government books, but for us it was about leadership. A lot of people are taking a huge hit right now. I do not want the people who feel that to be the people on the front line—our low- and middle-income earners. It should be about leadership, and that means the people at the top. Media : How did you reach the 20 percent figure? PM : Ultimately, this is something that we just had to make a determination on where it should sit. We felt 20 percent was the right place. I know that some people, however, are in a position of not having work; so in many ways this was always just going to be an acknowledgment of the hit that all New Zealanders are taking right now—many New Zealanders are taking right now—but we settled on 20 percent just being an acknowledgment that we could make as leaders. Media : One of the concerns that were raised by the chiefs of the major independent media organisations today at committee was the amount of money that the Government is spending on social media advertising. How much money is the Government spending on social media advertising versus local media platforms? And will you redirect that advertising spend? PM : You’re right to point out that we do do both. Any New Zealander right now would see, for instance, a significant amount of advertising on our TV channels for the Unite COVID-19 messaging. But, while I don’t have the social media figures in front of me, what I would say is we do need to be present where people are. And so that means that we are behaving in the same way that many private enterprises are. There is advertising on those social media platforms, but that has not been at the expense of advertising in those traditional platforms that we have utilised in the past. Media : Given the promulgation of fake news and misleading information on some of those social media platforms, one of the chiefs this morning pointed out that the Government is effectively—I’m paraphrasing—propping up these social media platforms that are behaving in a way that isn’t as ethical as traditional media platforms do. PM : All the more reason for us to make sure that there are trusted sources of information on those platforms. Whether we like it or not, it’s where the public are, and we need to make sure that we access them. Separate again is the issue of making sure that journalism can survive in that new environment. We can’t stem the tide of people’s new behaviour. What we can do is ensure that journalism survives in spite of that. Media : Dr Bloomfield, the death in Invercargill: we understand it was a man who was in self-isolation who had been diagnosed with COVID-19. Why is he not being counted as one of the deaths? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I am aware of that death, and we are seeking further information at the moment, and until I have full information, we’re not in a position to confirm the cause of death of that man. If we’re confident it is from COVID-19, then this would be the first death in the community from COVID-19. We will classify it as a death, but I’m just awaiting further information to be able to confirm the cause of death. Media : Do you expect there will be more deaths at home, or are you hoping that most of them will be in a hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, it’s hard to say, really. We do have—most of our people with active infection are at home in self-isolation; only a small proportion are in hospital. Media : Can I just come back to the media stuff, so how would you characterise the package when you’re talking about there are going to be different tranches of it? What’s your message to commercial media, who—you know, the message was very clear this morning: they’re in a very, very perilous situation. PM : Yes, and, as we have really heard, exacerbated by COVID-19 rather than as a result of it. Really, I think what we will be coming out with won’t come as a surprise to some of those outlets, because we are in conversation with them around what is necessary for us, again, not to create a false environment where some of the new realities don’t exist but to ensure that we still have robust journalism and access to information for the public. First tranche is that which is really focused on some immediate responses, and then, not too far down the track, I would say some weeks later, we will then have a second tranche. Media : Does this put you in the position where you might look at overriding some of those Commerce Commission decisions? Are we in a space where some of those past positions might now change? PM : Again, I want to act with caution about getting ahead of too much of what we might say in the future. But, again, what we will be saying I don’t think will come as too much of a surprise, because there is a good degree of communication, in spite of the fact that it’s a competitive environment between our Minister for broadcasting and those outlets. Media : Prime Minister, the New Zealand Māori Council has urged the Government to work more with Māori businesses and industry to develop a Māori specific employment and business growth approach. What do you make of that? PM : Oh, I have no hesitation to say that that’s exactly the kind of thing we can and should be doing. As I touched on a little bit yesterday, whilst we’ve been taking a bit of a sector approach, you know, what do we do to make sure that we’re supporting the new future of tourism, our arts in cultural sector in particular—how do we support them in these new environments—I also see that for the Māori economy, that we should be also engaging directly on how do we make sure that in those areas where there’s been challenges, we’re addressing them but where there’s opportunities we make the most of it as well, particularly food production. Media : And when it comes to growing the Māori economy post-lockdown, who will be leading that from the Government’s perspective? Will it be the relevant Ministers or will the Māori caucus play that more sensitive role? PM : Our Māori caucus always has input into these issues, without question, but we also use our Ministers to have some lead in particular areas, so I expect that for something specific there, Minister Mahuta would be involved, but at a regional economic development level we’ve also been using Minister Jones and Minister Twyford. But our Māori caucus are very much on the ground giving us the feedback about what will work in their communities, and they play an active and important role. Media : Dr Bloomfield, you said yesterday that you’d look into concerns by nurses at Burwood Hospital’s COVID-19 ward that they didn’t have feet or hair covers, so can you give the New Zealand public a categorical assurance that nursing staff on that ward will always have the full kit, including foot and hair covers and, if they don’t, what’s your plan? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can give a categorical assurance about is that we have got a really good process for ensuring we have supply of PPE out to our health sector, and that’s our job as the Ministry of Health. I think we’ve gripped that up. We’ve got good stocks of PPE. We have nationalised the distribution out to DHBs to ensure they’re getting enough. What I’m not in a position to do is to be able to provide an assurance about access of individual health workers to PPE in individual circumstances, because we have over 100,000 health workers. What I can also say is that any health worker that has a concern about access to or use of PPE is able to and should escalate their concerns within their organisation. There are very good processes for them to do that. The unions have ability to support that escalation process, and I know for a fact that any chief executive would take any concerns seriously and look into them. So that’s the assurance I can provide. Media : Thank you. There’s mounting international evidence as well saying that wider use of masks are key to helping reduce the risk of spread because many people are asymptomatic. An adviser to the World Health Organization has stated, “I think that wearing a mask is equally effective or more effective than distancing.” So why aren’t you advising the New Zealand public to start using masks in public settings like supermarkets? What could possibly be wrong with issuing this advice as we potentially move into level 3? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So we are continuing to look at the evidence around the use masks and particularly the experience in different countries, and if we think they’ve got an important role to play, we will definitely move in that direction. I think, again, as I’ve said before, there’s still a range of views about when they are of greater benefit than not, and so we’ll keep an open mind about the evidence. Media : Does the ministry know how coronavirus got into St Margaret’s rest home? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have the information about that as yet, but what I can say is that some of the cases are outside the rest home and some are inside, and what we have seen with all of our aged residential care facility outbreaks is that they have been introduced by someone coming in from the outside, whether it’s a worker or, earlier on, a visitor. The way that it was introduced may well have been because someone who was in the rest home also was infected out and is part of that community base, part of that cluster. Media : Would you be concerned if it was a staff member who brought it in, or would that make sense as something that happens? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we’re concerned about it—whatever the cause we’re concerned about it and we’re most concerned about finding out how it got in and, of course, stopping any further spread. And just to go back to my earlier comment that all of our facilities are working incredibly closely with the local public health units and DHBs to stop that further spread. Media : Just back on PPE, Dr Bloomfield, should nurses be reusing masks, goggles, visors? I understand that’s been recommended by the Ministry of Health but the WHO says that they only be reused when there’s a shortage, which I understand we don’t have. Bloomfield : I think there’s a distinction between recycling and reusing, and there is some work that’s looking at—that we’re not sponsoring, but there is some work looking at whether you can clean and reuse PPE. And I agree with the WHO—you should only do that if you have a shortage, which we don’t. I think there’s a distinction between that and using PPE for a period of time; for example, our nurses who might be doing swabbing in CBACs don’t need to change their PPE between each patient they might be swabbing. So they will be using it for a period and the important thing is to change it after a period of time, particularly the masks because they get damp and they need to be disposed of. Media : So nurses should be getting very clear information from their DHB about when it is appropriate and when it’s not to be reusing or recycling it? Bloomfield : Well, I wouldn’t expect they would be reusing or recycling it. There may be some elements of the PPE that you could use for a longer period of time than others. Media : You may not have the exact numbers on this, but, of cases in recent days, how many of these are infections in new bubbles, as opposed to cases in an extant cluster or spread within a bubble from one infected person? Do have an idea of how many of these are in new bubbles? PM : The majority today are cluster-related, as I understand—I believe, the vast majority. Sorry, we might come back to you on the breakdown. Do you want it over a couple of days or just for today? Media : Just a sense of, in recent days, is the virus still spreading between bubbles in the community or has it been clamped down on? PM : Yeah, my recollection is five or less for most of these different days that we’ve had on reporting of cases, and then with a bit more time sometimes those have then been assigned to clusters, but I’ll let the Director-General comment on it. I think what it’s fair to say, as a general rule of thumb—a handful; a very, very small number. With time, often then we are able to identify, but that’s exactly what we need to be looking for, though. That is when it can tell us that there might be something else going on, and so that’s why it’s so critical we do that investigatory work. Bloomfield : That’s right, Prime Minister. And so what we’re doing at the moment is working our way back to look at every new case since 1 April to determine that they have either all been linked to an existing cluster or a close contact of a case or overseas travel, and so far what we’ve found—and I think that’s why you’re seeing the proportion of unexplained cause, which is right from the start, has gone from 11 to 10 percent, which represents another 13 cases or so where they have found the source and been able to attribute it to an existing cluster and case. So we’re working our way backwards and we will also be examining every case every day now by the end of the day to find out exactly what the source is, and if we’re not sure, then to put a wide ring-fence around that and really go in and investigate it closely. PM : One of the issues of us coming down and giving you the results in such close proximity to when we receive them is we don’t always have that final information when we give them to you. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you tell us where Dr Verrall’s contact tracing report is and when we might expect to see it? Bloomfield : Yes, it’s with me and my team who’ve worked up and I just met with them again this morning to go through the response to it, and we’re furiously responding to the recommendations; work under way. The plan is to put that in front of Ministers in the next 24 hours—yes, tomorrow—and once they’ve had a chance to look at it, then we’ll make it public, as well as some information about what we’re doing in response. PM : We had a bit of a discussion over whether or not we’d put the report out without the response, but I think immediately the question becomes what have we done, so we’re putting it both out at the same time, but, I imagine, fairly soon after Ministers having received it we’ll just put it into the public domain. Media : With your investigation into rest homes, will this overlap with the Chief Ombudsman’s? Bloomfield : So I spoke with the Chief Ombudsman this morning—actually, just in particular to confirm with him about the arrangements he’s got for his staff to go in to make sure they’re well protected, and I was very satisfied with the arrangements he’s put in place. Obviously, his findings I would like to inform our work, and also make sure whatever he finds and what we find from our review is used to continue to strengthen and improve the protection for staff and residents within our aged residential care facilities. Media : For the first time, recovered cases is now outnumbering the number of people currently suffering the disease; that must be significant? PM : Yes. Media : I imagine that will stay the case, as well, given we’ve got a smaller amount of new cases. So does that actually mean anything in terms of the health system? Can you now downscale the [ Inaudible ] way? PM : Probably more a question for the Director-General. Bloomfield : And the question was, can we downscale the—? Media : Well, I mean, what does it mean for you in terms of the actual fighting of the disease—anything, or is it just a number? Bloomfield : Well, it really reflects that we’ve had a much smaller number of cases over the last two weeks, recalling that recovered cases are people for whom the symptom onset was at least 10 days ago and they’ve had no symptoms for at least 48 hours, so it just really reflects that the bulk of our cases were in that February-March period and they’ve now been classified as recovered. What I would say, though, is that fundamental to our work now—and over coming weeks and months—will be having ongoing, very vigorous testing; and very timely follow-up and contact tracing. So we’re not downscaling; if anything, we’re sort of filling in any—identifying and filling in any gaps in those processes, to make sure they’re gold standard. Media : Could it be that the health system is currently experiencing the bulk now, and it will only get easier? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think it is experiencing the bulk of the current peak that we had, and we’ve passed that peak, but not out of the woods. So, yes, there will be—I think—less pressure now on the health system over coming weeks. But, of course, what we need to do is ensure the health system can, essentially, revert to providing as much care as possible for people, while still maintaining its ability to respond to any COVID-19 cases. Media : A business owner who’s had their rent raised says this morning’s announcement was a token gesture, it’s not addressed the issue at all, and asking landlords to do the right thing has done nothing. Why did you not implement a rent freeze for commercial properties? PM : Because we couldn’t. So the Residential Tenancy Act gives us different abilities that the Property Act does not. But what we wanted to do was create the same kind of additional buffer that we have for those in residential properties, by saying that essentially the ability to remove a tenant, really widening that from a 10-day to a 30-day—and again, clearly send the message here, “Be a good citizen.” You know, it is just utterly unfathomable, in this situation, to see some of what we’ve seen—including increases in commercial rents—at a time like this. I’d also just ask someone to think about what happens if you then do remove someone from your commercial property? Who is going to tenant that in the middle of level 4, let alone any other level right now? So take a long view, work with your tenant, and actually just be a good human being. Media : Dr Bloomfield, did the Ministry of Health provide any advice to Ministers, or other Government departments, on what the public health effects might be under the various scenarios that Treasury presented? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The scenarios presented yesterday? Media : Yep. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So we didn’t provide any specific advice, but our advice is obviously informing action right across Government around, in particular, preparing for stepping out of level 4 down to level 3. A public health view of that would be yes, we would want to do that very quickly, because we want to get the economy going again and ensure people have employment, income, access to education, and so on. Media : There are many New Zealanders in immigration detention in Australia, and the Human Rights Commission there have said that all those should be released, just because it’s a COVID-19 hotspot. Have you got any concerns around that, and have you talked to Scott Morrison about those issues? PM : Look, I haven’t spoken to him specifically about that issue. But again, that is entirely within the mandate and the management of the Australian Government. It’s not an issue that we have any direct control over. My expectation is that, obviously, within the Australian Government, they’ll be working hard to make sure that COVID is contained in all of its environments, just in the same way that New Zealand is. Media : In terms of the Pacific community, are you confident that you are capturing the full rate of infection, or not, in the community if most of the positive cases—are they still related to the Marist cluster, or other infections elsewhere in the Pacific community? PM : In terms of numbers, 62 individuals who identify as being Pasifika have had COVID-19. So that is amongst the lowest of the ethnicities that we are breaking down as part of our reporting. What I can’t tell you is what percentage of those will have been from the Marist cluster. But I imagine a number would have. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, a good number. One of the things we’re also looking for, of course, is the rate of lab testing amongst Pacific communities. I said yesterday we were doing another extract of the lab data—it came in later yesterday, so we’re just analysing that, but we’ll provide that today. We’ll be looking for high rates of testing and low positivity rates. Media : So given the low numbers amongst Pasifika, which on face value is a really good thing, does that, though, give confidence that you are picking up the true rates of infection? Is there anything that would give you any concerns about that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It gives me some confidence, and I’d like to get a higher degree of confidence with the increased testing this week in, for example, South Auckland—to make sure we’re getting good rates of testing amongst Pacific communities. Media : Prime Minister, have you been in touch with any of the families who have lost a loved one as a result of COVID-19? PM : No, I haven’t. I mean, most families I’ve noticed just the—you know, the byline around respecting privacy. After a bit of time, I imagine that is something that I’ll look to do, but I have really tried to just give them the distance and the space that families would generally want at a time like this. Media : Dr Bloomfield, just to clarify, you’re part of that group taking a 20 percent pay cut? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, definitely. PM : What I should add is just before coming down here, I did advise the Leader of the Opposition of the decision that had been made by Ministers, which, of course, chief executives were already, obviously, aware of that offer and decision as well. They were a part of that. I made it known to him, and he has indicated that he will be joining in this initiative as well. Media : What do you make of President Trump’s decision to suspend funding for the World Health Organization? PM : Oh, sorry. Was that for me or— Media : Yes, it was. PM : Yes. Look, my view and the view of New Zealand and those, of course, who engage directly with the World Health Organization is that it’s an incredibly important body. At a time like this where we need to be sharing information, where we need to have advice that we can rely on, the World Health Organization has provided that, and we will continue to support it, and we will continue to make our contribution. Perhaps Dr Bloomfield may like to comment, as someone who had a close association with the World Health Organization. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just to reiterate the point you made, I think. You know, the global response to this pandemic will require a strong World Health Organization, so it behoves all of us, I think, to—and New Zealand, I know, will continue to play its part, supporting the organisation actively both globally and also in our region and across the Pacific. Media : Can I ask a few questions on behalf of others? Thank you. First, to Dr Bloomfield: how far back does the stag-do cluster date back to, and is that cluster linked to a prominent New Zealander? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I have to say I don’t know in the first case and I have no idea on the second. Media : And Prime Minister, what’s your advice to parents that have sat down to home school their children for the first time today? PM : Well, I’ve actually been getting a little bit of wider family feedback, actually, from others who have been watching as their children have been perhaps engaging in the broadcast that has been put out on two free-to-air channels today. The one thing I would really say is: don’t put too much pressure on yourselves as parents to be teachers. Yes, I absolutely appreciate that you’re the ones facilitating that, and there’s quite a burden that comes with that, but, as Nigel Latta has said, your kids will be having more of an educational experience than you probably appreciate right now. These are extraordinary times. Don’t be too hard on yourselves. They will be learning, even when you may not notice it. Media : And the catchcry that you kind of issued, “Go hard and go early.”, was used to help get us into level 4. What’s your approach for New Zealand coming out of level 4? PM : Well, obviously, that’s not a decision we’ve yet taken. So I guess my catchcry now would just be: let’s stay the course. We are doing things differently to others, and we’re seeing results that are different to others. Very few countries have got their numbers down as low as we have, so there’s few to learn from at this point, other than ourselves. So I would really encourage New Zealanders: we don’t need to constantly compare to other places—we’ll do it our way. Media : How different will level 3 look this time around compared to what it did three weeks ago, those two days that we were in level 3? PM : Obviously, it was brief. We’ve got very broad parameters that people will already see in the public domain. Tomorrow, we’ll be giving a lot more detail around that, but it will still require us to continue to reduce down our contact with one another. Media : You mentioned in your opening remarks that the numbers in the clusters had gone up because people had moved out of that unknown category. What is that unknown category at now? Is it reducing quite a lot, and is it taking quite a bit of time to contact trace those people in particular? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the proportion that is unknown is down to 10 percent. So just over a week ago, it was 18 percent of cases. But that’s 10 percent of all cases right from the start. What I’m really interested in is, in the ones that have happened in the last two weeks and that happen over this coming week, what are the proportion where it’s unknown and we can’t link them to existing clusters and cases. So I think it’s that proportion that is the most relevant, and as soon as I’ve got some data on that, I will share that. Media : So in terms of that 10 percent, though, are there some cases in there that have been so long now that you just may never actually be able to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Correct. PM : But I think it’s a good point to make, differentiating for those cases that were, for instance, well over two weeks ago versus those that are in the last two weeks, because lockdown helps us reduce down the chances of transmission of those unknowns elsewhere, but if we have it in these last two weeks, that’s what we really need to pay attention to. I believe that, of the 20 cases today, 19 of them have been linked to clusters, as I understand. So that gives you a sense that those numbers are smaller now, but important none the less. Media : There are some scientists in New Zealand who are working, or want to work, on a cure for COVID-19, and they would like some Government help on this. What is your message to them? Is this something you would invest in? Some sort of local— PM : My understanding is that Health is actually working with the WHO and the Health Research Council on responses to COVID. I’ll let Dr Bloomfield respond to that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So just a quick comment: the Health Research Council has done a call for proposals, and I understand that they’ll be making announcements later this week on the research that has met their requirements and that they will be funding. Media : Linked to that, do you have any concerns that New Zealand will be quite far down on the pecking order when it comes to vaccines? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I’m not concerned about it, because we will make sure we’re not, and I think there are a couple of ways we can do that. Predominantly, that will be making sure we are working very closely with Australia, which is undertaking research. There may be some vaccine research that we can also do here, and I think we will look to work really closely with Australia around research, development, and then production of a vaccine. Media : Dr Bloomfield, we’ve been talking about surveillance testing, or sentinel testing, for weeks now, but we still haven’t actually seen that programme being rolled out. How far away is it? And why is it taking so long? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’d say we’re doing it now. The testing we’re doing now is, effectively, population-wide sentinel testing, and that includes wide testing, having a low threshold for testing, and specific efforts to target groups—for example, through mobile testing going out to find cases. So, arguably, and my view is, at the moment we are now doing what I would call population-wide, across the country sentinel testing. So, if you think about yesterday’s confirmed number of seven cases and 2,100 tests done, it’s a positivity rate of under 0.3 percent. So, effectively, we are testing to find any case out there, which is sentinel testing. Media : But you’re not going to launch a formal programme of sentinel testing? You’ll sort of widen your own? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There will be—once we move down into level 3, there will be some ongoing testing, which, again, some of which will be sentinel testing and some of which will be specific case finding, or cluster management, which is part of our overall surveillance, which includes documenting influenza-like illness calls to Healthline, visits to general practice for influenza-like illness. There is the app, the flu tracker, which, interestingly—and, again, we saw this yesterday is also happening in Australia—the prevalence of people with influenza-like symptoms has dropped off through all those surveillance mechanisms that we have over the last week or two. PM : Dr Bloomfield, perhaps you could help me with my recollection as well. Yesterday, when asked the same question about sentinel testing, my recollection is that it numbers in the hundreds—sentinel testing—whereas, obviously, the scale— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. Usually, Prime Minister, there’s 270 tests a week done for influenza, and we’re doing—well, yesterday—2,100 tests for people with any respiratory symptoms. Media : Just to clarify the point around the media at select committee this morning, is the Government considering redirecting that advertising away from those global platforms like Facebook and Google? PM : We will continue to advertise in places where New Zealanders are. We still have an obligation, for instance, through campaigns like the one we’ve run on COVID-19, to actually be where New Zealanders are accessing news and information. But we are also advertising on those more traditional platforms as well, and we will continue with that. Advertising and the way that Government uses advertising is part of our wider consideration, but it doesn’t mean that we won’t continue to be in places where Kiwis are. Media : What about political advertising? Isn’t that a different thing? It doesn’t have the public-good aspect. And should that continue to be put through— PM : Political advertising will be a decision made by individual parties, and so that will really be a matter for them. Obviously, in those cases politicians will often just be a part of the community as well. So it has a different lens to it. Media : Do you see any merit in President Trump’s reasons for suspending WHO funding? He, basically, said that they were being too kind to China and hadn’t kind of stopped people doing travel bans early enough? PM : No. Media : I know you were loath to dignify it with a response—the whack 5G conspiracy the other day—but given that people are now destroying telecommunications towers, what message would you like— PM : Used for 4G. Media : What message would you like to send to those who are promulgating that conspiracy theory? PM : Don’t. Maybe I’ll just leave it to the facial expressions of Dr Bloomfield. OK, we’ll take a last question—down the back. Media : Dr Bloomfield and the Prime Minister, if you’d like: what do you make of the idea that’s appeared and disseminated yesterday and in recent weeks that the virus isn’t as bad as people are saying it is, because it will largely only kill people who would have been likely to die anyways? PM : Firstly, say that to someone who’s lost a loved one. In fact, that’s probably the only thing I’ll say on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Two comments on this. First, I think just yesterday WHO Director-General Tedros talked about how much worse this virus is than the Swine Flu virus; I think he said 10 times worse than the virus that caused the pandemic in 2009. And, secondly, the deaths we’ve seen around the world are not confined to older people and people with pre-existing conditions; in fact, we have seen younger adults who are otherwise perfectly healthy die from this virus. They are not immune, and I think that’s been a really clear message from those who have had much greater outbreaks in their countries—is to try and get that message out. This is a tricky virus. It’s by no means not a problem in younger people, and therefore it behoves all of us to do everything we can, not just to protect our older people and those with pre-existing conditions but actually to stop unnecessary deaths across our population. PM : OK. Thank you, everyone.
The daily COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Hon Grant Robertson, Minister of Finance Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 17 April --- Section Separator --- Hon Grant Robertson : Kia ora, ngā mihi nui ki a koutou katoa. Nau mai, haere mai ki tēnei hui pāpāho. Greetings, everybody; welcome to the media conference. As you can see today, I’m joined by Dr Caroline McElnay, the Director of Public Health. I’m going to hand over to her to update you on case numbers and testing numbers before I run through a couple of items of Government news and take your questions. Dr McElnay. Dr Caroline McElnay : Thank you. Tena koutou katoa. Today, New Zealand’s total number of COVID-19 cases has increased by eight—made up of two new confirmed cases, and six new probable cases. All of them are linked to either confirmed cases, or known outbreaks. The new, combined, total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is 1,409. Sadly, there are two further deaths to report today. One death occurred in Waikato Hospital. That person was a man in his 90s, who died yesterday. He had been living at home with family, and was admitted to hospital on Saturday night, very unwell. The man had a connection to the Matamata cluster. While the man’s family were not with him when he passed away, staff at Waikato Hospital provided support to the man, and his family, to care for him in his final days. Sadly, the second death is a woman in her 80s, who died at Burwood hospital yesterday. She was part of the group of 20 Rosewood residents who were transferred to Burwood on 6 April. The woman had an underlying health condition. Her family were also not able to be with her, but a staff member at Burwood Hospital was with the woman when she passed away. Sadly, there’s now been seven deaths from the group of Rosewood residents who were moved to Burwood. There are five other cases who remain stable at present, but this is a group of frail, elderly people. This brings the total number of confirmed COVID-19 deaths in New Zealand to 11. These people and their families will be in the thoughts and prayers of all New Zealanders today, as we are again reminded of the serious threat that COVID-19 poses—particularly for elderly and vulnerable people. We all need to continue to play our part to contribute to the elimination of this virus from New Zealand—by staying home, staying in your bubble, breaking the chain of transmission, and saving lives. There are now 816 reported cases of COVID-19 who have recovered—an increase of 46 on yesterday. Today we have 14 people in hospital with COVID-19. The total includes three people in ICU, one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. So that’s no change from yesterday. Two of the ICU patients are in a critical condition—and, again, that’s unchanged from yesterday. There are still 16 significant clusters; no change from yesterday. Fifteen more cases have been connected to the clusters, but I have to reiterate that that’s because a connection has been made—that’s not necessarily new cases. As we go through the process of case investigation, we’re able to make the connection to the clusters. Just an update on testing, 4,241 tests were processed yesterday, with a rolling seven-day average of 2,674, giving us a total tests to date of 74,401. New Zealand continues to increase the amount of testing, and is expanding the pool of those being tested for COVID-19 to include anyone with respiratory symptoms. We encourage anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms to get tested, and we continue to encourage DHBs to make sure that they’re supporting that testing. The level of community transmission in New Zealand is currently low, and most of the cases that have been diagnosed with COVID-19 do have links to overseas travel or close contacts of other cases. DHBs, including in Queenstown, Waikato, and Canterbury, are arranging for teams to go out into the communities, including through mobile testing clinics. They are also undertaking targeted testing to provide some further information about community transmission in these regions. Yesterday, at Pak ’N Save in Queenstown, 343 supermarket workers and customers were tested. About half of those tests have already been processed, and all are negative to date. Today, a similar approach is being taken in Canterbury, with another 250 people being tested at a supermarket, and in Waikato, there is also asymptomatic testing occurring at supermarkets in five towns: Ōtorohanga, Hamilton, Matamata, Cambridge, and Te Awamutu. This additional testing and targeted testing will add to the total pool of tests done and provide us with increased confidence in our data, and that will help give us an overall picture of COVID-19 in New Zealand. And lastly, I just want to draw your attention to the Health Research Council, who today announced funding for researchers from the Medical Research Institute of New Zealand to co-lead three internationally significant trials in the fight against COVID-19. The trials will assess potential therapeutic agents to fight COVID-19, including hydroxychloroquine, which is one of a number of drugs which have got attention across the world as potentially a treatment for the virus. Thank you. Robertson : Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. I just want to add the Government’s sympathies regarding the sad news of these further deaths. The fact that we knew we would lose some New Zealanders to COVID-19 doesn’t lessen the shock or the sadness each time it happens, and we send our thoughts to the family and friends of those who have passed. This also serves as a sombre reminder that we need to continue to stay home to save lives and to break the chain of transmission. Despite the release yesterday of information about alert level 3, it is important to remember that New Zealand is still currently at alert level 4, and we must make sure that we are following the rules and guidance for level 4. Information about what may come next is not an invitation to adopt those level 3 measures yet. So please remember: stay local, don’t visit others, and don’t do anything that could put you in danger and needing rescue. Going hard and going early has put us in a good position. Things could have been very, very different, so let’s not waste this chance. As you know, Cabinet will meet on Monday to discuss and decide whether to extend the level 4 time frame from midnight on Wednesday, or whether the country, or some of it, will move to level 3. I want to say two things about this. First, as the Prime Minister made very clear yesterday, level 3 is not markedly different from level 4. It does allow more businesses to open safely as we position the economy for recovery and keep New Zealanders in jobs, but it is not a return to pre-COVID days; we are some time away from that. As we work through our decision, I note the news overnight that the UK Government extended its lockdown for a further three weeks. Other countries have made similar decisions such as France, Australia, India, and Japan. None of that is intended to signal Monday’s decision. I share it with you simply as a reminder that this is a long game: a marathon, not a short sprint. My second point is that whether we remain at level 4 or move to level 3, Government support for businesses and assistance for workers remains vital and will continue. It will cushion the economic hit and it will help keep New Zealanders in jobs and our businesses viable. On that point, may I also note that our response has differed to that of some overseas governments, in that a large part of the money that we are investing is already out the door and in people’s pockets and bank accounts. It’s been paid for 12 weeks upfront, so no matter where we are, that money is reaching people. As an aside, and to throw back to my earlier comments about the importance of staying home to save lives, I’d note that the Treasury scenarios released earlier this week also reflected that a little longer now spent at level 4 or level 3 is ultimately better for the economy than an early exit and a potential return to lockdown later on. So it’s clear to me that from both a health and economic perspective, what we’re doing is working, and I urge everyone to continue that work. There’s more mahi to do. Lastly, before I take your questions, and as some of you may have already seen, the Treasury has done as it said it would and released its weekly economic update today, and an accompanying dashboard of high-frequency economic indicators. These indicators cover the underlying state of sectors in the economy, like transportation and freight movement, consumer spending and trade. The dashboard also contains information on the wage subsidy scheme and the MSD Jobseeker Support payments. The Government is trying to play a role here in making sure that data like this is available to support decision making and independent analysis. The Treasury is working to constantly update its weekly dashboard as more datasets become available, both from Government and private sector sources. To end, I think it’s worth acknowledging again that the wage subsidy is doing its job to protect jobs and help businesses and workers stay connected through the lockdown. To date, the subsidy has paid out $9.9 billion since we announced it on 17 March, and is protecting the jobs and incomes of 1.6 million workers. In comparison, there are roughly 23,000 new people on Jobseeker Support over that time—that represents about 1.5 percent of the amount of workers being covered by the wage subsidy. This shows that our action to move early and get money out the door to support businesses and workers was the right one. Happy to take your questions. Media : The fact that we’re in single digits today in terms of new cases, that would seem to be a good sign towards us moving to alert level 3 next week—is that fair? Robertson : Well it’s an encouraging sign for alert level 4 doing its job, but I don’t think we should get ahead of ourselves; we’ve still got a few—two or three—more days’ worth of data to go before we reach the point of making a decision. I want to remind you of the important things that we have to assure ourselves of to be able to move. One of those is that we genuinely are breaking the chain of community transmission in particular, and while we’ve been doing and the Ministry of Health has been doing some excellent work on getting to the bottom of the cases that we weren’t able to identify, that work goes on for some cases. We also— Media : Would— Robertson : I’ll just finish the answer. We’ll also need to make sure that we have in place fully the measures around contact tracing, around making sure that we’ve got all the capacity that we need in our health system as well. So there is still more work for us to do to decide on that. Media : Just on that, though, the following up on that, with Treasury saying a little longer now spent at levels 4 and 3 is better in the long run, are we seriously still considering staying in level 3? Is that still a serious consideration? Robertson : Staying at level 3? Media : Four, sorry. Robertson : Look, all those options are on the table. Cabinet has not made its decision; we still have more data to collect and we still have to take what is a critical decision very, very seriously. As I outlined, a number of other countries have taken the decision to extend their lockdown periods. We’ll make ours on the basis of the most up-to-date data that we can get. New Zealanders have made great progress under level 4, and we should all be very proud of what we’ve done, but this is an extremely important decision and one we’ll take with the most up-to-date data. Tova? Media : But, Minister, it’s amazing that these front-line health workers are able to be with these people, you know, when they’re so unwell before they pass, but you talk about the fact that the families aren’t there—that is devastating. Is that something that will change under level 3? Robertson : Well, as was discussed, I think the last time you raised this question, that’s something that’s being considered, I know, by the Ministry of Health and I’ll get Dr McElnay to say anything more about that. It is a heart-breaking time for those people, and I, like the Prime Minister, can’t imagine how that would feel for me. These are the sacrifices New Zealanders are making so that we’re making the progress we are. And so, you know, my sympathies go out to them, but Dr McElnay, if you’ve got anything more on that? McElnay : No, that’s totally right, and we want to have a very safe environment for our patients as well as our family, and obviously our healthcare workers as well, so we will be looking—particularly as our numbers have gone right down—at what we can put in place in order to enable that but still keep people safe. Media : Are you able to expedite that work? McElnay : Well, it’s happening at the moment, so we’ve expedited it; we’re looking at how we can do that. Media : And in the past, you and Dr Bloomfield have both talked about foreshadowing potential further deaths at Burwood. Is that still the case? McElnay : As I said, we have got a number who are confirmed or probable cases. This is a group who have been frail and vulnerable from the outset, and we just can’t predict, or we can’t say, in this age group, and with the frailty that they have—you can get deterioration quite quickly, and so we’re aware that that might be the case. That doesn’t mean that it will happen, and of course we hope that it doesn’t, but we’re not out of the woods yet. Media : Just a question around contact tracing—a couple of things. Dr Verrall’s contact tracing report: when can we expect to see that made public? And also, around these community tests being done in Queenstown and Canterbury, are people compelled to do them, are they happy to do them—what’s the feedback there? Robertson : I’ll hand over to Dr McElnay on some of the detail of that. On the first point, I’ll have to find out for you; I don’t have that information with me today. On the second point, my understanding is that they are asked if they want to participate in that. From what I saw in Queenstown, people have wanted to do it and have actually made sure that they take the time to have the tests done on them. This kind of surveillance testing is useful, as you heard from Dr McElnay—half of those 350-odd tests in Queenstown yesterday have already been processed. Everybody was negative, but this is the kind of reassurance I know that we want. We want to maximise the amount of testing we do. We have capacity for more testing in New Zealand, so we’ll look forward to the outcome of the two extra sites today. Anything to add on that? McElnay : Just reiterate that, yes, it is completely voluntary. I’ve got some feedback on how it went yesterday in Queenstown, and that went very well. There was a high demand. They actually took more swabs than they’d been anticipating taking. It was a random sample of people who were shoppers at the supermarket as well as workers at the supermarket, and so the roll-out today in Waikato and Canterbury will be following the same sort of model, but completely voluntary. Media : Dr McElnay, can I ask: is there any more information regarding to the Invercargill home death and whether that has been linked to COVID-19? McElnay : We’re still investigating that. My understanding is that a post-mortem has been undertaken for that individual, and we’re waiting for the results of that. So we’ll be able to update you once we’ve got word back on that. Media : What do you think of the proposal that I understand is under consideration that 5 million COVID cards should be distributed to enable contact tracing—that would carry, I think, a cost of $100 million. What’s— Robertson : Yeah, look, there’s a lot of work being done in a lot of different businesses and research centres on what is the best way to be able to support contact tracing. There’s been a number of questions at previous press conferences about Bluetooth-related testing, and testing involving mobile phones. I’m aware that there is work going on in a card type approach. We have to assess all of these as to whether or not they are the best way in order for us to get the maximum amount of contact tracing done and whether they can practically work and what are some of the other consequences, for instance, around privacy. So certainly aware of that work, the Ministry of Health are working very closely with a number of different people, and we’ll have more to say about that as we come to make a decision on how we use it. Media : A couple of questions on the random testing. Why did you choose those locations and how much of a role will those results play in the decision making on Monday? McElnay : Well, we’ve been increasing our testing over the last few weeks, but we’re mindful that that requires people to present for testing. And so we sought advice from our technical advisory group as to how we could increase our confidence that we really didn’t have any undetected cases in the community, and they advised two things. As a short term measure, they advised us to increase our testing at our CBACs and our designated practices and make sure there were no access issues. But the other recommendation they made was to actually target what they referred to as “hot spots”—so places in the country where we know we have got cases; we’ve got higher numbers of cases in those areas. So we identified four places: Auckland, Waikato, Canterbury, and Queenstown, in particular, in the Southern district. And we were able to stand up very quickly the testing in Queenstown, Canterbury, and Waikato. And so it won’t be perfect information, but it gives us a snapshot of people in the community. And the reason that we chose supermarkets is because supermarket workers are in contact with a lot of people, so they would be highly exposed if there was something circulating in the community. So we worked with the supermarkets to stand up that testing. Robertson : In terms of the second part of your question, Tova, it will be one factor. But it’s a factor within a factor, essentially. As I’ve said, one of the main things we’re concerned about is: are we breaking the chain of community transmission? Now, this is a helpful piece of information in that regard, but, equally, is the earlier contact tracing we’ve done and the work that I talked about just before in terms of going through those cases where we weren’t sure and starting to eliminate some of those cases as being connected either to an overseas visitor or an existing close contact. So all of that information comes together as part of our consideration. Media : When can we expect the testing to begin in Auckland? Robertson : Sorry, Maiki? Media : When can we expect the testing to be done in Auckland, and is it still being done in South Auckland? McElnay : So this was a snapshot test to do yesterday and today, so that we can get the test results back, to inform our advice about the level of disease across New Zealand. We will be doing further testing; we haven’t yet worked out exactly where, and what that looks like, but that is part of our surveillance plan, going forward, for COVID-19. Media : Yesterday you mentioned testing would be undertaken in South Auckland? McElnay : South Auckland would be one of the communities that we would want to get some testing done; we just haven’t been able to organise that for today. Media : On the contact tracing—is the Government specifically looking at the COVID card model, and doesn’t this need to be done a whole lot quicker if we’re going to be, you know, feasibly leaving lockdown soon? Robertson : Look, the work’s been under way for some time on a number of different options. We’re certainly aware of the COVID card option as one of those. The Ministry of Health has been working closely with a number of different providers— Media : So are you strictly looking at it? Like, beyond being aware of it? Robertson : It’s one of the many options that have been put in front of the Government, and it’s one that we’re aware of, and it’s one that the Ministry of Health, I know, has had conversations with some of the people who have been developing it. Media : Minister, the continued ban on hunting at alert level 3, David Seymour says that’s illogical because data shows it’s actually safer than some things that are allowed, like swimming and tramping. What’s your response to that, and is hunting something that the Government is willing to reconsider before we move? Robertson : Well, there isn’t a ban on hunting; what there is is a piece of work that is under way at the moment to assess whether or not it can safely go ahead at level 3. I believe the website may have had an error on it yesterday that said that hunting was banned. That work is under way right now to consider whether or not it can take place at level 3. I’d just reiterate the principles we’re trying to apply here, which are about making sure that we keep people as safe as possible, that we are involved in low-risk activities. Clearly hunting, for fairly obvious reasons, has some high risks attached to it, but if it can be done safely that’s what we’re now assessing, and that work will be finished as we come into early next week—for May, actually. Media : Minister, can I just ask a question on schools. A lot of principals and teachers are upset that they weren’t consulted ahead of yesterday’s announcement. What is your response to that? Robertson : I think it’s really important to remember that at any point that we do make a transition down to level 3, the Ministry of Education has been very clear that schools would not open for pupils for a least a week after that. So if you think about where we are now in the best possible scenario, we’re still two weeks away, effectively, from schools reopening. So there is now time to work through with teachers, principals, parents, and students, to make sure we can make this work. I understand there is discussions this afternoon between the Ministry of Education and principals and teachers, to make sure we work through how this will work. This is a situation where I believe we can make schools into a place that will be very safe for students and teachers; that will be available for those people who have to go back to work, for their children to attend. So I’m confident we can do that; we’ve just got to use the time we’ve got over the next couple of weeks. Media : Could you see yourself going back on some of the ideas that you announced yesterday—for example, would you go back on the idea that it’s voluntary, or could you do staggered roll-outs? I mean, could you change that system if those issues continue to arise in these discussions? Robertson : Well, the point of consultation is to hear from those who are at the coalface, or the chalkface, and make sure that we structure this in such a way that it does work, and it upholds the public health principles that we’ve got. I think it is really important, though—I believe that parents will ultimately make the right decision for their children; I trust them to do that. And so, you know, some parents will be in a position, going back to work, where they do need to make sure that their children go to school. Of course, if they can stay at home—and we want people to stay at home if they can—then they can be there with their children. So we’ve got time to work this through. Media : One last clarification point on that: so did you say that schools will definitely have at least a week for when level 4 lifts, regardless if that’s in one week, two weeks, or three weeks? Robertson : That’s correct. Media : Always be a week? Robertson : That’s correct. Media : With regard to the tracing apps, where are you with those, and have you rolled out using the Singaporean one after talking to— Robertson : As I say, there’s ongoing work on that at the moment. The shortcomings around it, the Singapore app, are ones that are being looked at. Obviously, it’s an example of that kind of technology, and there are other examples, as well. So it’s about finding what is best to work for New Zealand. As I say, the Ministry of Health is closely involved in that work. You’ll appreciate that this development is happening in real time; this is not like a piece of technology that someone’s been working on for two or three years. So therefore it makes sense to talk to a number of different people, but we’re certainly aware of the progress that’s been made. Media : Do you think it’s safe for 20-plus young children to be attending an early childhood centre in level 3? McElnay Well, we’re working very closely with the Ministry of Education to work through the specific advice in order to keep children safe and teachers safe and families safe. I’m not aware that we’ve actually released a specific number. We continue to work with them following public health principles. Robertson : Yeah, and that’s the most important thing here is that the overriding decision here is around public health and upholding public health. Clearly, the early childhood sector is one where we do have to work closely with those who provide the education there to make sure it can be done in a safe way. The creation of bubbles within schools and within early childhood centres is our belief to be the best way of making sure that we maintain those public health principles. It’s the reason why, for example, in secondary schools, we’re only taking people up to year 10—because that allows the schools to be able to maintain physical distancing requirements, for instance; maintain bubbles staying together rather than interacting with other bubbles. Clearly, in an early childhood setting, there are particular things that need to borne in mind in terms of the way that toddlers will interact with one another. That’s why the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education are working together to refine that advice. Media : And Minister, is the Government working on a specific hospitality support package; if yes, what does that include? Robertson : Yeah, look, we’re working on further support for businesses, and one of the things we need to do is understand more about the impact of COVID-19 and the way that we respond to it on particular sectors. It’s quite clear from the hospitality and restaurant associations that they’re pleased that some of their businesses are now going to be able to reopen under a level 3 framework. If you look towards a level 2 framework in the future, you can also see further opportunities there. So we’ll take our time over the coming weeks and months to look at how each individual sector is supported, but we have work under way around further support for both businesses and households and individuals. Media : One of the things that they’re really, really crying out for is rent relief. Will you at least consider that? Robertson : I’ve said before that we are considering that. Obviously, we made some interim steps earlier this week in that regard in terms of the legislative changes, but we need to look overall at how we support businesses to get through this. Our focus has been on those that are vulnerable but viable, and we’ll continue to look at that. Media : Dr McElnay, Wairarapa appears to have zero active cases right now, perhaps maybe the only region. Is there any particular reason behind the success there, and could it be replicated elsewhere? McElnay : I don’t think there’s any particular success there. They certainly did have cases. I think that’s just what happens. Cases can pop up anywhere. We’ve seen that particularly with our large events and functions: that you can have people from all over the country being there and they go back to their home place, and then that can cause other cases. There’s no science behind why one place would have higher cases than others, but what we now are seeing across the country is a high level of testing across the country, so that’s getting us a much better assurance that we’re not missing any undetected cases. Robertson : I do think it’s important to remember, when data is reported DHB by DHB, that it doesn’t necessarily pick up the point that Dr McElnay is making—that, for example, the Hereford bull conference in Queenstown is actually the source of a number of the Waikato DHB cases. So it’s actually a little bit more difficult to say it’s about a particular region per se. Media : Minister, just on health inequities, how confident are you that your public health response is capturing the concern around Māori and Pasifika communities? McElnay : Well, we’re very conscious of the need to look at our health inequities. We do not want to worsen any of the health inequities that we have as a result of our COVID-19 response. So that’s been very much a part of the response that we’ve put into place and the advice that we’ve received as well. Robertson : And it’s important to remember that we also have made provision for specific funding packages for Māori health and Pasifika health providers. That’s a recognition of the fact that in those population groups we know that we have to work extra hard to make sure we don’t allow those inequities to increase. Media : Just in terms of the public health response, though, is there anything specific that is being done for those communities? Robertson : Well, I’ve actually just said that—we’ve just funded those particular groups with additional money, and there will be ongoing focus as part of the public health response on all groups across our community but especially those we consider maybe more vulnerable. We’ll just come back to Tova. Media : Dr McElnay, CCDHB has said that the nurse who tested positive for COVID-19 was wearing full PPE and had gone through PPE training. What does that say about the effectiveness of PPE, and what safety assurances can you give those healthcare workers? McElnay : Well, we’re still investigating that case to see exactly what has happened. That’s my understanding—is that she was wearing full PPE. Of course, we haven’t yet fully investigated the source of infection from this nurse, and the public health service is continuing to do that. PPE is part of the overall protection that we can put in place for our healthcare workers and for patients, but there are other factors that we also need to look at, which—I don’t have the information on this individual. But, certainly, we encourage and are supporting the use of PPE by our healthcare workers. Media : Do you have an update on the number of healthcare workers— Robertson : We’ll just go down the back. Media : Just to follow on—a very quick follow-on, sorry. Do you have an update on the number of healthcare workers who currently have COVID-19? McElnay : So we have 128 healthcare workers who have been reported to date, and about half of those were infected outside the workplace, and we’re continuing to investigate the other half, because it’s actually—it is really critical that we understand how they acquired their infection. Media : Is this move around schools at level 3—is it for educational reasons or is it, effectively, creating like a babysitting-type service? Robertson : We absolutely want students, children, to be able to continue to learn. That is our primary focus. It’s the reason why we’ve rolled out the online learning programme, and all of the support that goes with that, and we are completely focused on this as an educational issue. But we have to undertake that education within a safe public health environment—hence, as I said before, why in the secondary school settings we’re looking at making sure that it’s only those up to year 10—so that we can space people out and have physical distancing. Similarly, that’s the reason why we’re looking at bubbles within primary schools and ECEs. This is about making sure that educational opportunity is available. I just want to reiterate what I said before: we know that a lot of parents will make the decision on behalf of their children that they’ll stay home and continue to use the distance learning opportunities—that’s something to be encouraged. But for other parents, they may not have that choice because they’ll be going back to work. This is about making sure that their children continue to get education as well. Media : Minister, just a couple of questions about the greatest game of rugby league, what do you make of the NRL’s plans to resume on 28 May? Have they briefed you, given the Warriors will be involved? Do you support it? And do they actually need a special exemption to leave New Zealand to play in it? Robertson : Personally, I haven’t been involved in any discussions about that. I believe there may have been some high-level discussions between some people working on behalf of the NRL and Sport New Zealand. Look, that sounds like a very ambitious date to me, to start a competition up, and no doubt there’s a lot to work through on both sides of the Tasman about how that would work. Clearly, both sides of the Tasman are operating strict quarantine arrangements at the moment, and therefore that provides some real limitations on the ability of people to travel and spend time in situ. I did hear yesterday that the other NRL clubs had said that they wanted to make sure that the Warriors had the opportunity to undertake pre-season training once they got to Australia, if that’s where they got to. So if you think about that in terms of the time line, it’s pretty ambitious. I think overall, you know, the principle we continue to have to apply is public health and safety, and that applies as much to people who are professional sports people as it does to anybody else. Media : Just to follow up on the sports question, quickly? Robertson : Well, of course if it’s a sports question, I’ll take it, Tova. Media : Thank you very much—ha! What clarity will you be providing to national sports organisations around which sports are able to resume training, and in what capacity, if and when the nation moves to level 3? Robertson : So in level 3—and, actually, some guidance about sport and recreation at the levels has just gone up on the COVID website in recent time. At level 3, there really isn’t the scope for that. At level 3, we want people to stay in their bubbles still. So I know a number of our professional athletes are training hard inside their own bubble. When it comes to level 2, there is further work to do there as to what might be possible in terms of particularly contact sport at a professional level. That requires conversations with health officials and with sports clubs. Clearly, myself, as a sports fan, and many others around the country would love to see that take place, but it certainly won’t be happening at level 3. Media : On the active cases, do you know how many of them are in quarantine or managed self-isolation? McElnay : I don’t have those figures with me, but we can get that information. Media : Under the level 3 rules, the relocation rules, would someone in a bubble be able to move to their holiday home if they were staying in the holiday home for the entirety of whatever the next lockdown period is? Robertson : I think, as I understand the bubble rules, we want people to, essentially, stay where they are. If they do need to relocate back to a region for work, then we have said that that is OK. But we do not want a large number of people heading off to their holiday homes. Media : I just want to ask about those in quarantine coming into the country. Can you give us a bit of an update around how many have come in, how many more you might expect, and what the Government’s doing for them—how that’s panning out? Robertson : I don’t have particular numbers in front of me, Collette. Clearly, numbers have dropped off significantly, and we can come back to you with what those are. But it’s to be expected that people have made their way back to New Zealand. There are declining numbers—and there have been every week since we’ve been in lockdown. In terms of how it’s going, my understanding is it continues to work relatively well. People are being looked after and they are being assessed and monitored, as we said they would be. Media : The economic dashboard talks about the IMF forecasting a much worse global economy in 2020 than during the global financial crisis, but then it goes on to say that the global economy is forecast to rebound strongly in 2021. Are you confident it will happen that quickly? Robertson : Well, that’s the forecast of the IMF, and it’s certainly what I think everybody would want. What that reflects is that economic activity will have some burst when we do come out of periods of lockdown around the world. But, clearly, all of these projections are being done in an environment where we lack any data to compare it to. We, in many ways, can’t compare it particularly well to the financial crisis, because that was a crisis of the financial sector and the system; this is, essentially, a health crisis that is leading to a demand crisis within the global economy. So they’re actually different examples. Clearly, what we’d all like to see is the economy rebound as soon as possible into 2021, but we’ll need a lot more data before we can be sure about that. Media : Might the Government start pushing ahead with some of its infrastructure projects under alert level 3, or would that have to wait till level 2? Robertson : Look, I mean, what alert level 3 allows is some productive parts of our economy to get going—including the construction sector, forestry, manufacturing, and so on. So within that sector are a number of Government infrastructure projects that I would like to see get going as soon as they can within the public health guidelines. Clearly, if we’re able to move through the levels to level 2, that will see more of that work come forward. In terms of the identification of projects, that work continues. There are a lot of projects that have been identified, and so we’ll take some time over the next couple of weeks to work our way through that list. Media : Are you alarmed at the number of complaints MBIE has received about employers pocketing the wage subsidy? Robertson : Look, there are a large number of complaints, and they need to be thoroughly investigated. We’ve been extremely clear that the purpose of the wage subsidy scheme is for money to reach employees and make sure that they stay attached to their business. So those accusations now need to be investigated, they are being investigated, and I’d be very, very disappointed if businesses have misused that scheme. Media : Just to follow on that, a Michael Hill worker has told us that they haven’t received a subsidy, and it’s been paid out $2.26 million. What’s your message to Michael Hill? Robertson : I’ll look into that right now. Media : Just a couple of health queries, sorry. The Wellington nurse who’s tested positive: we’ve been told that—forgive me, I’m just trying to decipher this—a patient positive with the virus left an isolation room, which is how the nurse got infected. Can you confirm that? Robertson : I think that’s probably the kind of investigation that Dr McElnay said is exactly underway. And rather than just take from you something that you’re deciphering, that’s exactly why we need to look into that. Media : It’s an honest query from a newsroom. We’ve got another one—in Christchurch, we’ve spoken to a COVID case who was cleared from self-isolation after being symptom-free for 48 hours but then subsequently was re-tested as a positive later that day. Is that 48-hour window suitable? McElnay : Well, we, on our website, have our guidance for when patients are considered to be recovered: it’s 48 hours from when they’re symptom-free. I don’t know the details of that particular case, and there may be more in order to interpret your question, but that guidance is there and it talks also about a 10-day period from the onset of symptoms. So we’ve got quite a robust definition of recovery. Media : Some more health questions, sorry. Can I get your reaction to the trialling of the hydroxychloroquine drug, and why is that so important, and what benefit is New Zealand bringing to the table by investing into this research? McElnay : For the details of that research, I’ll have to pass you over to the Health Research Council, because they’ve been involved with the funding of that, but I guess it’s a reflection of the worldwide interest that there is, and the researchers that we have will be part of a team looking into this. And there is interest, as you’ll be aware, on the possibilities of this drug, and so we do need to do further research in order to really understand whether or not that’s the case. Robertson : Could you just say the name of the drug again? Media: Hydroxychloroquine. Robertson : Oh, thank you. That’s fantastic. McElnay : Well done! Media : You say that you really want to ramp up testing, Dr McElnay. Why not then remove the requirement to have a referral from Healthline or a GP to get a test? McElnay : Well, we will be looking at how we can best make our testing as available as possible going forward. It is one of our central pillars for maintaining elimination, which we hope to achieve, but maintaining that going forward. So as we move through into the next phases, we need to look at how best we can get that testing— Robertson : And to be clear, if people have respiratory symptoms, they should come forward and they should be tested. Thanks, everybody. Thank you. --- Section Separator --- Hon Grant Robertson : Kia ora, ngā mihi nui ki a koutou katoa. Nau mai, haere mai ki tēnei hui pāpāho. Greetings, everybody; welcome to the media conference. As you can see today, I’m joined by Dr Caroline McElnay, the Director of Public Health. I’m going to hand over to her to update you on case numbers and testing numbers before I run through a couple of items of Government news and take your questions. Dr McElnay. Dr Caroline McElnay : Thank you. Tena koutou katoa. Today, New Zealand’s total number of COVID-19 cases has increased by eight—made up of two new confirmed cases, and six new probable cases. All of them are linked to either confirmed cases, or known outbreaks. The new, combined, total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is 1,409. Sadly, there are two further deaths to report today. One death occurred in Waikato Hospital. That person was a man in his 90s, who died yesterday. He had been living at home with family, and was admitted to hospital on Saturday night, very unwell. The man had a connection to the Matamata cluster. While the man’s family were not with him when he passed away, staff at Waikato Hospital provided support to the man, and his family, to care for him in his final days. Sadly, the second death is a woman in her 80s, who died at Burwood hospital yesterday. She was part of the group of 20 Rosewood residents who were transferred to Burwood on 6 April. The woman had an underlying health condition. Her family were also not able to be with her, but a staff member at Burwood Hospital was with the woman when she passed away. Sadly, there’s now been seven deaths from the group of Rosewood residents who were moved to Burwood. There are five other cases who remain stable at present, but this is a group of frail, elderly people. This brings the total number of confirmed COVID-19 deaths in New Zealand to 11. These people and their families will be in the thoughts and prayers of all New Zealanders today, as we are again reminded of the serious threat that COVID-19 poses—particularly for elderly and vulnerable people. We all need to continue to play our part to contribute to the elimination of this virus from New Zealand—by staying home, staying in your bubble, breaking the chain of transmission, and saving lives. There are now 816 reported cases of COVID-19 who have recovered—an increase of 46 on yesterday. Today we have 14 people in hospital with COVID-19. The total includes three people in ICU, one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. So that’s no change from yesterday. Two of the ICU patients are in a critical condition—and, again, that’s unchanged from yesterday. There are still 16 significant clusters; no change from yesterday. Fifteen more cases have been connected to the clusters, but I have to reiterate that that’s because a connection has been made—that’s not necessarily new cases. As we go through the process of case investigation, we’re able to make the connection to the clusters. Just an update on testing, 4,241 tests were processed yesterday, with a rolling seven-day average of 2,674, giving us a total tests to date of 74,401. New Zealand continues to increase the amount of testing, and is expanding the pool of those being tested for COVID-19 to include anyone with respiratory symptoms. We encourage anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms to get tested, and we continue to encourage DHBs to make sure that they’re supporting that testing. The level of community transmission in New Zealand is currently low, and most of the cases that have been diagnosed with COVID-19 do have links to overseas travel or close contacts of other cases. DHBs, including in Queenstown, Waikato, and Canterbury, are arranging for teams to go out into the communities, including through mobile testing clinics. They are also undertaking targeted testing to provide some further information about community transmission in these regions. Yesterday, at Pak ’N Save in Queenstown, 343 supermarket workers and customers were tested. About half of those tests have already been processed, and all are negative to date. Today, a similar approach is being taken in Canterbury, with another 250 people being tested at a supermarket, and in Waikato, there is also asymptomatic testing occurring at supermarkets in five towns: Ōtorohanga, Hamilton, Matamata, Cambridge, and Te Awamutu. This additional testing and targeted testing will add to the total pool of tests done and provide us with increased confidence in our data, and that will help give us an overall picture of COVID-19 in New Zealand. And lastly, I just want to draw your attention to the Health Research Council, who today announced funding for researchers from the Medical Research Institute of New Zealand to co-lead three internationally significant trials in the fight against COVID-19. The trials will assess potential therapeutic agents to fight COVID-19, including hydroxychloroquine, which is one of a number of drugs which have got attention across the world as potentially a treatment for the virus. Thank you. Robertson : Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. I just want to add the Government’s sympathies regarding the sad news of these further deaths. The fact that we knew we would lose some New Zealanders to COVID-19 doesn’t lessen the shock or the sadness each time it happens, and we send our thoughts to the family and friends of those who have passed. This also serves as a sombre reminder that we need to continue to stay home to save lives and to break the chain of transmission. Despite the release yesterday of information about alert level 3, it is important to remember that New Zealand is still currently at alert level 4, and we must make sure that we are following the rules and guidance for level 4. Information about what may come next is not an invitation to adopt those level 3 measures yet. So please remember: stay local, don’t visit others, and don’t do anything that could put you in danger and needing rescue. Going hard and going early has put us in a good position. Things could have been very, very different, so let’s not waste this chance. As you know, Cabinet will meet on Monday to discuss and decide whether to extend the level 4 time frame from midnight on Wednesday, or whether the country, or some of it, will move to level 3. I want to say two things about this. First, as the Prime Minister made very clear yesterday, level 3 is not markedly different from level 4. It does allow more businesses to open safely as we position the economy for recovery and keep New Zealanders in jobs, but it is not a return to pre-COVID days; we are some time away from that. As we work through our decision, I note the news overnight that the UK Government extended its lockdown for a further three weeks. Other countries have made similar decisions such as France, Australia, India, and Japan. None of that is intended to signal Monday’s decision. I share it with you simply as a reminder that this is a long game: a marathon, not a short sprint. My second point is that whether we remain at level 4 or move to level 3, Government support for businesses and assistance for workers remains vital and will continue. It will cushion the economic hit and it will help keep New Zealanders in jobs and our businesses viable. On that point, may I also note that our response has differed to that of some overseas governments, in that a large part of the money that we are investing is already out the door and in people’s pockets and bank accounts. It’s been paid for 12 weeks upfront, so no matter where we are, that money is reaching people. As an aside, and to throw back to my earlier comments about the importance of staying home to save lives, I’d note that the Treasury scenarios released earlier this week also reflected that a little longer now spent at level 4 or level 3 is ultimately better for the economy than an early exit and a potential return to lockdown later on. So it’s clear to me that from both a health and economic perspective, what we’re doing is working, and I urge everyone to continue that work. There’s more mahi to do. Lastly, before I take your questions, and as some of you may have already seen, the Treasury has done as it said it would and released its weekly economic update today, and an accompanying dashboard of high-frequency economic indicators. These indicators cover the underlying state of sectors in the economy, like transportation and freight movement, consumer spending and trade. The dashboard also contains information on the wage subsidy scheme and the MSD Jobseeker Support payments. The Government is trying to play a role here in making sure that data like this is available to support decision making and independent analysis. The Treasury is working to constantly update its weekly dashboard as more datasets become available, both from Government and private sector sources. To end, I think it’s worth acknowledging again that the wage subsidy is doing its job to protect jobs and help businesses and workers stay connected through the lockdown. To date, the subsidy has paid out $9.9 billion since we announced it on 17 March, and is protecting the jobs and incomes of 1.6 million workers. In comparison, there are roughly 23,000 new people on Jobseeker Support over that time—that represents about 1.5 percent of the amount of workers being covered by the wage subsidy. This shows that our action to move early and get money out the door to support businesses and workers was the right one. Happy to take your questions. Media : The fact that we’re in single digits today in terms of new cases, that would seem to be a good sign towards us moving to alert level 3 next week—is that fair? Robertson : Well it’s an encouraging sign for alert level 4 doing its job, but I don’t think we should get ahead of ourselves; we’ve still got a few—two or three—more days’ worth of data to go before we reach the point of making a decision. I want to remind you of the important things that we have to assure ourselves of to be able to move. One of those is that we genuinely are breaking the chain of community transmission in particular, and while we’ve been doing and the Ministry of Health has been doing some excellent work on getting to the bottom of the cases that we weren’t able to identify, that work goes on for some cases. We also— Media : Would— Robertson : I’ll just finish the answer. We’ll also need to make sure that we have in place fully the measures around contact tracing, around making sure that we’ve got all the capacity that we need in our health system as well. So there is still more work for us to do to decide on that. Media : Just on that, though, the following up on that, with Treasury saying a little longer now spent at levels 4 and 3 is better in the long run, are we seriously still considering staying in level 3? Is that still a serious consideration? Robertson : Staying at level 3? Media : Four, sorry. Robertson : Look, all those options are on the table. Cabinet has not made its decision; we still have more data to collect and we still have to take what is a critical decision very, very seriously. As I outlined, a number of other countries have taken the decision to extend their lockdown periods. We’ll make ours on the basis of the most up-to-date data that we can get. New Zealanders have made great progress under level 4, and we should all be very proud of what we’ve done, but this is an extremely important decision and one we’ll take with the most up-to-date data. Tova? Media : But, Minister, it’s amazing that these front-line health workers are able to be with these people, you know, when they’re so unwell before they pass, but you talk about the fact that the families aren’t there—that is devastating. Is that something that will change under level 3? Robertson : Well, as was discussed, I think the last time you raised this question, that’s something that’s being considered, I know, by the Ministry of Health and I’ll get Dr McElnay to say anything more about that. It is a heart-breaking time for those people, and I, like the Prime Minister, can’t imagine how that would feel for me. These are the sacrifices New Zealanders are making so that we’re making the progress we are. And so, you know, my sympathies go out to them, but Dr McElnay, if you’ve got anything more on that? McElnay : No, that’s totally right, and we want to have a very safe environment for our patients as well as our family, and obviously our healthcare workers as well, so we will be looking—particularly as our numbers have gone right down—at what we can put in place in order to enable that but still keep people safe. Media : Are you able to expedite that work? McElnay : Well, it’s happening at the moment, so we’ve expedited it; we’re looking at how we can do that. Media : And in the past, you and Dr Bloomfield have both talked about foreshadowing potential further deaths at Burwood. Is that still the case? McElnay : As I said, we have got a number who are confirmed or probable cases. This is a group who have been frail and vulnerable from the outset, and we just can’t predict, or we can’t say, in this age group, and with the frailty that they have—you can get deterioration quite quickly, and so we’re aware that that might be the case. That doesn’t mean that it will happen, and of course we hope that it doesn’t, but we’re not out of the woods yet. Media : Just a question around contact tracing—a couple of things. Dr Verrall’s contact tracing report: when can we expect to see that made public? And also, around these community tests being done in Queenstown and Canterbury, are people compelled to do them, are they happy to do them—what’s the feedback there? Robertson : I’ll hand over to Dr McElnay on some of the detail of that. On the first point, I’ll have to find out for you; I don’t have that information with me today. On the second point, my understanding is that they are asked if they want to participate in that. From what I saw in Queenstown, people have wanted to do it and have actually made sure that they take the time to have the tests done on them. This kind of surveillance testing is useful, as you heard from Dr McElnay—half of those 350-odd tests in Queenstown yesterday have already been processed. Everybody was negative, but this is the kind of reassurance I know that we want. We want to maximise the amount of testing we do. We have capacity for more testing in New Zealand, so we’ll look forward to the outcome of the two extra sites today. Anything to add on that? McElnay : Just reiterate that, yes, it is completely voluntary. I’ve got some feedback on how it went yesterday in Queenstown, and that went very well. There was a high demand. They actually took more swabs than they’d been anticipating taking. It was a random sample of people who were shoppers at the supermarket as well as workers at the supermarket, and so the roll-out today in Waikato and Canterbury will be following the same sort of model, but completely voluntary. Media : Dr McElnay, can I ask: is there any more information regarding to the Invercargill home death and whether that has been linked to COVID-19? McElnay : We’re still investigating that. My understanding is that a post-mortem has been undertaken for that individual, and we’re waiting for the results of that. So we’ll be able to update you once we’ve got word back on that. Media : What do you think of the proposal that I understand is under consideration that 5 million COVID cards should be distributed to enable contact tracing—that would carry, I think, a cost of $100 million. What’s— Robertson : Yeah, look, there’s a lot of work being done in a lot of different businesses and research centres on what is the best way to be able to support contact tracing. There’s been a number of questions at previous press conferences about Bluetooth-related testing, and testing involving mobile phones. I’m aware that there is work going on in a card type approach. We have to assess all of these as to whether or not they are the best way in order for us to get the maximum amount of contact tracing done and whether they can practically work and what are some of the other consequences, for instance, around privacy. So certainly aware of that work, the Ministry of Health are working very closely with a number of different people, and we’ll have more to say about that as we come to make a decision on how we use it. Media : A couple of questions on the random testing. Why did you choose those locations and how much of a role will those results play in the decision making on Monday? McElnay : Well, we’ve been increasing our testing over the last few weeks, but we’re mindful that that requires people to present for testing. And so we sought advice from our technical advisory group as to how we could increase our confidence that we really didn’t have any undetected cases in the community, and they advised two things. As a short term measure, they advised us to increase our testing at our CBACs and our designated practices and make sure there were no access issues. But the other recommendation they made was to actually target what they referred to as “hot spots”—so places in the country where we know we have got cases; we’ve got higher numbers of cases in those areas. So we identified four places: Auckland, Waikato, Canterbury, and Queenstown, in particular, in the Southern district. And we were able to stand up very quickly the testing in Queenstown, Canterbury, and Waikato. And so it won’t be perfect information, but it gives us a snapshot of people in the community. And the reason that we chose supermarkets is because supermarket workers are in contact with a lot of people, so they would be highly exposed if there was something circulating in the community. So we worked with the supermarkets to stand up that testing. Robertson : In terms of the second part of your question, Tova, it will be one factor. But it’s a factor within a factor, essentially. As I’ve said, one of the main things we’re concerned about is: are we breaking the chain of community transmission? Now, this is a helpful piece of information in that regard, but, equally, is the earlier contact tracing we’ve done and the work that I talked about just before in terms of going through those cases where we weren’t sure and starting to eliminate some of those cases as being connected either to an overseas visitor or an existing close contact. So all of that information comes together as part of our consideration. Media : When can we expect the testing to begin in Auckland? Robertson : Sorry, Maiki? Media : When can we expect the testing to be done in Auckland, and is it still being done in South Auckland? McElnay : So this was a snapshot test to do yesterday and today, so that we can get the test results back, to inform our advice about the level of disease across New Zealand. We will be doing further testing; we haven’t yet worked out exactly where, and what that looks like, but that is part of our surveillance plan, going forward, for COVID-19. Media : Yesterday you mentioned testing would be undertaken in South Auckland? McElnay : South Auckland would be one of the communities that we would want to get some testing done; we just haven’t been able to organise that for today. Media : On the contact tracing—is the Government specifically looking at the COVID card model, and doesn’t this need to be done a whole lot quicker if we’re going to be, you know, feasibly leaving lockdown soon? Robertson : Look, the work’s been under way for some time on a number of different options. We’re certainly aware of the COVID card option as one of those. The Ministry of Health has been working closely with a number of different providers— Media : So are you strictly looking at it? Like, beyond being aware of it? Robertson : It’s one of the many options that have been put in front of the Government, and it’s one that we’re aware of, and it’s one that the Ministry of Health, I know, has had conversations with some of the people who have been developing it. Media : Minister, the continued ban on hunting at alert level 3, David Seymour says that’s illogical because data shows it’s actually safer than some things that are allowed, like swimming and tramping. What’s your response to that, and is hunting something that the Government is willing to reconsider before we move? Robertson : Well, there isn’t a ban on hunting; what there is is a piece of work that is under way at the moment to assess whether or not it can safely go ahead at level 3. I believe the website may have had an error on it yesterday that said that hunting was banned. That work is under way right now to consider whether or not it can take place at level 3. I’d just reiterate the principles we’re trying to apply here, which are about making sure that we keep people as safe as possible, that we are involved in low-risk activities. Clearly hunting, for fairly obvious reasons, has some high risks attached to it, but if it can be done safely that’s what we’re now assessing, and that work will be finished as we come into early next week—for May, actually. Media : Minister, can I just ask a question on schools. A lot of principals and teachers are upset that they weren’t consulted ahead of yesterday’s announcement. What is your response to that? Robertson : I think it’s really important to remember that at any point that we do make a transition down to level 3, the Ministry of Education has been very clear that schools would not open for pupils for a least a week after that. So if you think about where we are now in the best possible scenario, we’re still two weeks away, effectively, from schools reopening. So there is now time to work through with teachers, principals, parents, and students, to make sure we can make this work. I understand there is discussions this afternoon between the Ministry of Education and principals and teachers, to make sure we work through how this will work. This is a situation where I believe we can make schools into a place that will be very safe for students and teachers; that will be available for those people who have to go back to work, for their children to attend. So I’m confident we can do that; we’ve just got to use the time we’ve got over the next couple of weeks. Media : Could you see yourself going back on some of the ideas that you announced yesterday—for example, would you go back on the idea that it’s voluntary, or could you do staggered roll-outs? I mean, could you change that system if those issues continue to arise in these discussions? Robertson : Well, the point of consultation is to hear from those who are at the coalface, or the chalkface, and make sure that we structure this in such a way that it does work, and it upholds the public health principles that we’ve got. I think it is really important, though—I believe that parents will ultimately make the right decision for their children; I trust them to do that. And so, you know, some parents will be in a position, going back to work, where they do need to make sure that their children go to school. Of course, if they can stay at home—and we want people to stay at home if they can—then they can be there with their children. So we’ve got time to work this through. Media : One last clarification point on that: so did you say that schools will definitely have at least a week for when level 4 lifts, regardless if that’s in one week, two weeks, or three weeks? Robertson : That’s correct. Media : Always be a week? Robertson : That’s correct. Media : With regard to the tracing apps, where are you with those, and have you rolled out using the Singaporean one after talking to— Robertson : As I say, there’s ongoing work on that at the moment. The shortcomings around it, the Singapore app, are ones that are being looked at. Obviously, it’s an example of that kind of technology, and there are other examples, as well. So it’s about finding what is best to work for New Zealand. As I say, the Ministry of Health is closely involved in that work. You’ll appreciate that this development is happening in real time; this is not like a piece of technology that someone’s been working on for two or three years. So therefore it makes sense to talk to a number of different people, but we’re certainly aware of the progress that’s been made. Media : Do you think it’s safe for 20-plus young children to be attending an early childhood centre in level 3? McElnay Well, we’re working very closely with the Ministry of Education to work through the specific advice in order to keep children safe and teachers safe and families safe. I’m not aware that we’ve actually released a specific number. We continue to work with them following public health principles. Robertson : Yeah, and that’s the most important thing here is that the overriding decision here is around public health and upholding public health. Clearly, the early childhood sector is one where we do have to work closely with those who provide the education there to make sure it can be done in a safe way. The creation of bubbles within schools and within early childhood centres is our belief to be the best way of making sure that we maintain those public health principles. It’s the reason why, for example, in secondary schools, we’re only taking people up to year 10—because that allows the schools to be able to maintain physical distancing requirements, for instance; maintain bubbles staying together rather than interacting with other bubbles. Clearly, in an early childhood setting, there are particular things that need to borne in mind in terms of the way that toddlers will interact with one another. That’s why the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education are working together to refine that advice. Media : And Minister, is the Government working on a specific hospitality support package; if yes, what does that include? Robertson : Yeah, look, we’re working on further support for businesses, and one of the things we need to do is understand more about the impact of COVID-19 and the way that we respond to it on particular sectors. It’s quite clear from the hospitality and restaurant associations that they’re pleased that some of their businesses are now going to be able to reopen under a level 3 framework. If you look towards a level 2 framework in the future, you can also see further opportunities there. So we’ll take our time over the coming weeks and months to look at how each individual sector is supported, but we have work under way around further support for both businesses and households and individuals. Media : One of the things that they’re really, really crying out for is rent relief. Will you at least consider that? Robertson : I’ve said before that we are considering that. Obviously, we made some interim steps earlier this week in that regard in terms of the legislative changes, but we need to look overall at how we support businesses to get through this. Our focus has been on those that are vulnerable but viable, and we’ll continue to look at that. Media : Dr McElnay, Wairarapa appears to have zero active cases right now, perhaps maybe the only region. Is there any particular reason behind the success there, and could it be replicated elsewhere? McElnay : I don’t think there’s any particular success there. They certainly did have cases. I think that’s just what happens. Cases can pop up anywhere. We’ve seen that particularly with our large events and functions: that you can have people from all over the country being there and they go back to their home place, and then that can cause other cases. There’s no science behind why one place would have higher cases than others, but what we now are seeing across the country is a high level of testing across the country, so that’s getting us a much better assurance that we’re not missing any undetected cases. Robertson : I do think it’s important to remember, when data is reported DHB by DHB, that it doesn’t necessarily pick up the point that Dr McElnay is making—that, for example, the Hereford bull conference in Queenstown is actually the source of a number of the Waikato DHB cases. So it’s actually a little bit more difficult to say it’s about a particular region per se. Media : Minister, just on health inequities, how confident are you that your public health response is capturing the concern around Māori and Pasifika communities? McElnay : Well, we’re very conscious of the need to look at our health inequities. We do not want to worsen any of the health inequities that we have as a result of our COVID-19 response. So that’s been very much a part of the response that we’ve put into place and the advice that we’ve received as well. Robertson : And it’s important to remember that we also have made provision for specific funding packages for Māori health and Pasifika health providers. That’s a recognition of the fact that in those population groups we know that we have to work extra hard to make sure we don’t allow those inequities to increase. Media : Just in terms of the public health response, though, is there anything specific that is being done for those communities? Robertson : Well, I’ve actually just said that—we’ve just funded those particular groups with additional money, and there will be ongoing focus as part of the public health response on all groups across our community but especially those we consider maybe more vulnerable. We’ll just come back to Tova. Media : Dr McElnay, CCDHB has said that the nurse who tested positive for COVID-19 was wearing full PPE and had gone through PPE training. What does that say about the effectiveness of PPE, and what safety assurances can you give those healthcare workers? McElnay : Well, we’re still investigating that case to see exactly what has happened. That’s my understanding—is that she was wearing full PPE. Of course, we haven’t yet fully investigated the source of infection from this nurse, and the public health service is continuing to do that. PPE is part of the overall protection that we can put in place for our healthcare workers and for patients, but there are other factors that we also need to look at, which—I don’t have the information on this individual. But, certainly, we encourage and are supporting the use of PPE by our healthcare workers. Media : Do you have an update on the number of healthcare workers— Robertson : We’ll just go down the back. Media : Just to follow on—a very quick follow-on, sorry. Do you have an update on the number of healthcare workers who currently have COVID-19? McElnay : So we have 128 healthcare workers who have been reported to date, and about half of those were infected outside the workplace, and we’re continuing to investigate the other half, because it’s actually—it is really critical that we understand how they acquired their infection. Media : Is this move around schools at level 3—is it for educational reasons or is it, effectively, creating like a babysitting-type service? Robertson : We absolutely want students, children, to be able to continue to learn. That is our primary focus. It’s the reason why we’ve rolled out the online learning programme, and all of the support that goes with that, and we are completely focused on this as an educational issue. But we have to undertake that education within a safe public health environment—hence, as I said before, why in the secondary school settings we’re looking at making sure that it’s only those up to year 10—so that we can space people out and have physical distancing. Similarly, that’s the reason why we’re looking at bubbles within primary schools and ECEs. This is about making sure that educational opportunity is available. I just want to reiterate what I said before: we know that a lot of parents will make the decision on behalf of their children that they’ll stay home and continue to use the distance learning opportunities—that’s something to be encouraged. But for other parents, they may not have that choice because they’ll be going back to work. This is about making sure that their children continue to get education as well. Media : Minister, just a couple of questions about the greatest game of rugby league, what do you make of the NRL’s plans to resume on 28 May? Have they briefed you, given the Warriors will be involved? Do you support it? And do they actually need a special exemption to leave New Zealand to play in it? Robertson : Personally, I haven’t been involved in any discussions about that. I believe there may have been some high-level discussions between some people working on behalf of the NRL and Sport New Zealand. Look, that sounds like a very ambitious date to me, to start a competition up, and no doubt there’s a lot to work through on both sides of the Tasman about how that would work. Clearly, both sides of the Tasman are operating strict quarantine arrangements at the moment, and therefore that provides some real limitations on the ability of people to travel and spend time in situ. I did hear yesterday that the other NRL clubs had said that they wanted to make sure that the Warriors had the opportunity to undertake pre-season training once they got to Australia, if that’s where they got to. So if you think about that in terms of the time line, it’s pretty ambitious. I think overall, you know, the principle we continue to have to apply is public health and safety, and that applies as much to people who are professional sports people as it does to anybody else. Media : Just to follow up on the sports question, quickly? Robertson : Well, of course if it’s a sports question, I’ll take it, Tova. Media : Thank you very much—ha! What clarity will you be providing to national sports organisations around which sports are able to resume training, and in what capacity, if and when the nation moves to level 3? Robertson : So in level 3—and, actually, some guidance about sport and recreation at the levels has just gone up on the COVID website in recent time. At level 3, there really isn’t the scope for that. At level 3, we want people to stay in their bubbles still. So I know a number of our professional athletes are training hard inside their own bubble. When it comes to level 2, there is further work to do there as to what might be possible in terms of particularly contact sport at a professional level. That requires conversations with health officials and with sports clubs. Clearly, myself, as a sports fan, and many others around the country would love to see that take place, but it certainly won’t be happening at level 3. Media : On the active cases, do you know how many of them are in quarantine or managed self-isolation? McElnay : I don’t have those figures with me, but we can get that information. Media : Under the level 3 rules, the relocation rules, would someone in a bubble be able to move to their holiday home if they were staying in the holiday home for the entirety of whatever the next lockdown period is? Robertson : I think, as I understand the bubble rules, we want people to, essentially, stay where they are. If they do need to relocate back to a region for work, then we have said that that is OK. But we do not want a large number of people heading off to their holiday homes. Media : I just want to ask about those in quarantine coming into the country. Can you give us a bit of an update around how many have come in, how many more you might expect, and what the Government’s doing for them—how that’s panning out? Robertson : I don’t have particular numbers in front of me, Collette. Clearly, numbers have dropped off significantly, and we can come back to you with what those are. But it’s to be expected that people have made their way back to New Zealand. There are declining numbers—and there have been every week since we’ve been in lockdown. In terms of how it’s going, my understanding is it continues to work relatively well. People are being looked after and they are being assessed and monitored, as we said they would be. Media : The economic dashboard talks about the IMF forecasting a much worse global economy in 2020 than during the global financial crisis, but then it goes on to say that the global economy is forecast to rebound strongly in 2021. Are you confident it will happen that quickly? Robertson : Well, that’s the forecast of the IMF, and it’s certainly what I think everybody would want. What that reflects is that economic activity will have some burst when we do come out of periods of lockdown around the world. But, clearly, all of these projections are being done in an environment where we lack any data to compare it to. We, in many ways, can’t compare it particularly well to the financial crisis, because that was a crisis of the financial sector and the system; this is, essentially, a health crisis that is leading to a demand crisis within the global economy. So they’re actually different examples. Clearly, what we’d all like to see is the economy rebound as soon as possible into 2021, but we’ll need a lot more data before we can be sure about that. Media : Might the Government start pushing ahead with some of its infrastructure projects under alert level 3, or would that have to wait till level 2? Robertson : Look, I mean, what alert level 3 allows is some productive parts of our economy to get going—including the construction sector, forestry, manufacturing, and so on. So within that sector are a number of Government infrastructure projects that I would like to see get going as soon as they can within the public health guidelines. Clearly, if we’re able to move through the levels to level 2, that will see more of that work come forward. In terms of the identification of projects, that work continues. There are a lot of projects that have been identified, and so we’ll take some time over the next couple of weeks to work our way through that list. Media : Are you alarmed at the number of complaints MBIE has received about employers pocketing the wage subsidy? Robertson : Look, there are a large number of complaints, and they need to be thoroughly investigated. We’ve been extremely clear that the purpose of the wage subsidy scheme is for money to reach employees and make sure that they stay attached to their business. So those accusations now need to be investigated, they are being investigated, and I’d be very, very disappointed if businesses have misused that scheme. Media : Just to follow on that, a Michael Hill worker has told us that they haven’t received a subsidy, and it’s been paid out $2.26 million. What’s your message to Michael Hill? Robertson : I’ll look into that right now. Media : Just a couple of health queries, sorry. The Wellington nurse who’s tested positive: we’ve been told that—forgive me, I’m just trying to decipher this—a patient positive with the virus left an isolation room, which is how the nurse got infected. Can you confirm that? Robertson : I think that’s probably the kind of investigation that Dr McElnay said is exactly underway. And rather than just take from you something that you’re deciphering, that’s exactly why we need to look into that. Media : It’s an honest query from a newsroom. We’ve got another one—in Christchurch, we’ve spoken to a COVID case who was cleared from self-isolation after being symptom-free for 48 hours but then subsequently was re-tested as a positive later that day. Is that 48-hour window suitable? McElnay : Well, we, on our website, have our guidance for when patients are considered to be recovered: it’s 48 hours from when they’re symptom-free. I don’t know the details of that particular case, and there may be more in order to interpret your question, but that guidance is there and it talks also about a 10-day period from the onset of symptoms. So we’ve got quite a robust definition of recovery. Media : Some more health questions, sorry. Can I get your reaction to the trialling of the hydroxychloroquine drug, and why is that so important, and what benefit is New Zealand bringing to the table by investing into this research? McElnay : For the details of that research, I’ll have to pass you over to the Health Research Council, because they’ve been involved with the funding of that, but I guess it’s a reflection of the worldwide interest that there is, and the researchers that we have will be part of a team looking into this. And there is interest, as you’ll be aware, on the possibilities of this drug, and so we do need to do further research in order to really understand whether or not that’s the case. Robertson : Could you just say the name of the drug again? Media: Hydroxychloroquine. Robertson : Oh, thank you. That’s fantastic. McElnay : Well done! Media : You say that you really want to ramp up testing, Dr McElnay. Why not then remove the requirement to have a referral from Healthline or a GP to get a test? McElnay : Well, we will be looking at how we can best make our testing as available as possible going forward. It is one of our central pillars for maintaining elimination, which we hope to achieve, but maintaining that going forward. So as we move through into the next phases, we need to look at how best we can get that testing— Robertson : And to be clear, if people have respiratory symptoms, they should come forward and they should be tested. Thanks, everybody. Thank you.
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Hon Chris Hipkins, Minister of Education Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference here.
Home Updates Transcript of COVID-19 media conference – 21 April --- Section Separator --- All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Kia ora. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou katoa. It’s day 27 of our lockdown, and we remain at alert level 4. We’ll be waking up to alert level 3 next Tuesday morning. Today, I’m here to set out what moving to alert level 3 next will look like for our schools, our early learning services, and our tertiary institutions, and also a little bit of a comment on what it might mean here at Parliament. I’ll update you on the Government’s engagement with the education sector to get ready to move to level 3, including key decisions and dates. We’ll talk more about the health guidance around the spread of COVID-19 amongst children—and I’m sure the director-general will also comment on that—how our response in education compares internationally, I can give you the latest information on our distance learning programme, and I’ll also brief you a little bit about how Parliament may operate under level 3. But first I’ll hand over to the Director-General of Health to give you his usual update. Thank you, Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So, today, New Zealand’s total number of new COVID-19 cases is five, made up of two new confirmed cases and three probable cases. All of these new cases are linked to existing cases. The new combined total of both confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is 1,445. Sadly, today I am reporting the death of a woman in her 70s who had COVID-19 infection. This woman was one of six residents from St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home in Te Atatū in Auckland who has been transferred to Waitakare Hospital on 17 April. The woman, who had an underlying health condition, died yesterday. Our thoughts are with this woman’s family and friends, and we ask that their privacy is respected at this difficult time. Now, residents were transferred from St Margaret’s as a number of staff were in precautionary—and continue to be in precautionary—self-isolation following close contact with people who are confirmed COVID-19 cases, and this has impacted on the facility’s ability to maintain full staffing. And so, in addition to those six residents who were transferred to Waitakere Hospital because they had COVID-19 infection, a further nine residents from St Margaret’s were transferred to North Shore Hospital on 18 April. These residents are not COVID-19 positive but are considered close contacts so are being monitored as well as receiving the usual care they would have if they had been back at St Margaret’s. There are now 1,006 cases of COVID-19 who have recovered, an increase on 32 yesterday. Today, there are 12 people in hospital with COVID-19 infection. This includes three in ICUs in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore Hospital. I’m pleased to say that none of these people are in a critical condition. There are still 16 significant clusters, and four more cases have been linked to extant clusters, including three of the cases we’re reporting today. In terms of testing, yesterday there were 3,203 tests processed around the country, and the new total is now 89,503. The stock in supply for testing is still over 83,000 complete tests. And just a word on testing—and we will put these graphs on our website after today’s stand up, but we are seeing from ESR reporting surveillance of what is called influenza-like illness that calls to Healthline, and our monitoring of ILI through HealthStat, which is through general practices, and through the FluTracker app, as well as our monitoring of what are called SARI—Severe Acute Respiratory Infections in hospital—have all plummeted, as we might expect, over this last three to four weeks. And that explains—that’s a very good reason for why our testing has dropped, because there simply are not people out there who have got respiratory symptoms. However, I’m still pleased to see that we’re processing over 3,000 tests a day. We will continue some community-based testing this week and, in particular, that’s happening in Tai Rāwhiti, in Taranaki, and in Northland. And I know in Tai Rāwhiti—and you can see this on their website—during this week there are mobile clinics around Gisborne from Monday to Friday and, starting today, some mobile testing moving its way up the East Coast to test those more rural communities. I’ll finish there and hand back to you, Minister. Hon Chris Hipkins : Thank you, Director-General. The first thing I’d like to do is give you a brief update on what will happen here at Parliament next week. As we move to level 3, Parliament will meet again on Tuesday, 28 April. The exact details for Parliament’s sitting next week will be confirmed following a meeting of the Business Committee tomorrow, but I do expect that the sitting will adopt the same practices that New Zealanders across the country will use during their working day at level 3, and that includes the correct physical distancing in the debating chamber. I also expect that there’ll be reduced numbers of MPs in the House in order to minimise the amount of travel that MPs will be undertaking. As you all know, many of the normal facilities in the parliamentary complex, including the Copperfield’s cafe and other catering facilities, will not be available whilst the House is operating, and we will be keeping as few essential people around the complex as possible. For this reason, we can expect that the normal sitting hours of the House will vary over the next three weeks. Business to be considered by Parliament will include question time, ministerial statements, essential urgent legislation that’s directly related to the COVID-19 response, and any other urgent Government business that is essential to keeping Government functioning whilst we prepare to deliver this year’s Budget. The Government has undertaken not to progress its normal legislative programme while we are at alert level 3. I’m happy to take questions at the end on Parliament, but in terms of turning to education, under alert level 3 most children and young people will be continuing distance learning. Early learning centres and schools will be physically open for students up to year 10 for the families that need that, but children who can stay home should stay home. At-risk students and staff, including those who are over the age of 70, should also stay home, and they will be supported to do so. Residential and special schools will not reopen in the early stages of alert level 3 for children to physically attend. They may reopen later during alert level 3 if public health measures can be managed, and we are working through that at the moment. In the meantime, teachers and staff will continue to support these students whilst they remain at home. Things like the Intensive Wraparound Service and ORS specialists continue to work with those students whilst they are at home. Education for students in years 11 to 13 will continue remotely. For tertiary education, moving to alert level 3 means remote learning will continue, but where that’s not possible, some facilities may reopen with strict physical distancing rules in place. Students in hostels, halls of residence, or self-contained flats can stay there—again, with strict rules—but if students went home to join their family bubble, they must stay home. They cannot return to student accommodation whilst we are at alert level 3. Providers are contacting their staff and students directly with more information, so they should be the first port of call for parents and students with questions. To prepare schools and early childhood centres to reopen next week, from today we are allowing people to enter schools and early learning services for the purposes of cleaning, maintenance, and any other essential preparations that are required for them to reopen for a teacher-only day on Tuesday, 28 April. We expect most children who need to attend will be able to attend from 29 April. I do want to caution, though: it may take a bit longer for some schools and early learning services to be ready, and the Ministry of Education will be working closely with all of them. This is not a normal situation, and we will need to be doing things differently. The Ministry of Education’s been meeting with sector groups to work through all of the practical issues. Over the last week, the ministry’s kept in close contact with the early childhood education advisory group, and this’ll continue as we continue to work through the key guidance that’s needed to support the early learning sector. We’ve also met with various principals’ groups around the country and with sector leaders, and we’ll continue to do so. Discussions with the sector will continue as more detailed advice is released over the next week to support schools and early learning services. Our approach to reopening the education system is based on the latest public health advice. I know that physical distancing will be very difficult with children and young people, particularly the youngest children in early childhood education. We’ve reached the point where the Director-General of Health is confident that there is no widespread undetected community transmission in New Zealand, so the chance of it coming through the door or through the gate in the first place is low. Keeping in mind that there are some 400,000 people going to work under alert level 3, just as we need to keep them safe, we’re putting in place measures to keep children and teachers safe. At alert level 3, the approach in an ECE or school environment is designed to limit the number of people that children have contact with. All of the evidence does point to children having lower risk of getting infected and being affected by COVID-19, and it’s possible to ensure that children are within the same group each day and that there is no mixing between groups. To be clear, it is safe, from a public health perspective, to have a group of children learning together. Parents can have confidence that the proposed approach is designed to keep children and their families and their teachers safe. It’s really important, though, that parents fully support this approach by doing their bit: keep children home if you can, definitely keep children home if they are unwell and seek medical advice about whether a child may need to be tested, strictly maintain your family bubble outside of schools and early learning, and ensure that great hygiene practices are observed at all times. Our return to education, along with restarting our economy, is largely on par with what we’re seeing around the rest of the world, although New Zealand is within a handful of countries in the enviable position of being able to transition out of lockdown and through the alert levels, so we must take the best position for our own needs. Distance learning is going to be with us for some time, for at least another three weeks, and I’d like to give you a brief update on the roll-out of the distance learning programme. We’ve started the distribution of 6,700 internet routers to households. Initially, those are being prioritised to schools that have students doing NCEA in deciles 1 to 3. We’ve also had 10,000 devices being distributed by schools to students, more than 1,250 internet-ready computers—that’s either Chromebooks or laptops—have been shipped to students so far, and an additional 4,500 have landed in New Zealand and are being prepared for shipping. Again, the priority is NCEA students in deciles 1 to 3. We have further equipment waiting to be shipped from overseas. In terms of the hard packs of materials that are going out to those who don’t have access to digital devices, I can confirm that so far we have sent out 80,000 packs in English and 10,000 packs in Māori. And we know that people are tuning into our TV channels to see familiar faces like Suzy Cato on the box. The latest information we’ve got is that 649,000 people tuned in during the first three days last week. The parental pages from the Ministry of Education’s website had over 100,000 visits over those three days. So I want to thank the profession for their goodwill and their professionalism. To teachers, principals, and centre leaders, they’ve got an important role to play in getting New Zealand back on its feet; I know they know that, and I want to thank them for it. So, finally, to all of the parents out there who I know are juggling working from home, caring for your kids, my message to you is the same as it’s been since the beginning: be kind to yourself. We are not expecting parents to completely replace the classroom environment at home, so be reasonable in your expectations of yourselves. These are extraordinary times, so thank you for your understanding. We’re doing our very best to minimise the impact on children’s learning and on their wellbeing, as we work together to keep New Zealanders safe. Happy to answer questions. Minister Hipkins, what are you doing to help those schools who might be disproportionately affected because, for example, in areas where both parents have to go back to work or where distance learning isn’t an option? Hon Chris Hipkins : So, obviously, where both parents have to go back to work, where distance learning isn’t an option, that’s one of the reasons why we’re saying that we do need schools and early learning services to be able to provide support to those families. In some cases, it’s also going to be possible, as families look to slightly enlarge their bubble, for them to be sharing care arrangements across other close relatives, for example, so that those kids can stay at home if they don’t need to go back. Media : Aren’t there going to be some schools, just by dint of their decile or, you know, where they are and the parents work, that are going to be facing a lot more kids coming than some schools who are well set up for distance learning and may have more parents at home? I mean, is there a breakdown, and are you going to give specific support to those schools that may have many more kids than they might have anticipated or potentially be able to deal with? Hon Chris Hipkins : So one of the things that this week gives us—and next Tuesday, as well, gives us—is an opportunity for schools to touch base with their parent communities and get an understanding of how many kids are maybe needing to come through the door next week when schools and early learning services start to reopen for kids from next Wednesday. If you look at the overall numbers, we’re expecting around 400,000 New Zealanders to go back to work; we’re still expecting around a million New Zealanders to be at home. So even in the situations where parents are going back to work, it may be that there are other family arrangements that can be put in place for those kids not to need to go back to school, and we’d certainly—I’d certainly encourage that. So if you’re enlarging your bubble slightly by bringing in an aunty or an uncle or someone else who could be at home with the kids because they’re working from home anyway, that would be a good arrangement. Media : Are there going to be some situations, though, where schools are going to have to say “We can’t take your kid; we’ve already filled our complement, and we just can’t take any more.”, and what would the response be in that particular situation? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, it’s too early to say that. We’ve got—over this coming week, we’re keeping very, very closely in contact with schools so that if they do start to get concerned that they’re going to have a whole deluge of students that they couldn’t adhere to public health guidance in bringing them back through the school gate, then we’ll work with them, and it may be that we can help to spread some of that load. But it’s very early at this point. We only made these decisions very recently. So we do need to give the education system time to digest that and to reach out to their parent communities. Media : A lot of ECEs and schools that we’ve spoken to are extremely worried and many won’t be opening under level 3. Is that a choice that they can make? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we’re not being too heavy-handed in this. Obviously, I do want early learning services to reopen if they can. The arrangements are going to be different though, because different centres have different child populations, different needs. They’re physically quite different, so the physical layout of those services can be quite different—some are very, very open, and some of them have smaller rooms and smaller spaces that make preserving bubbles within them more possible. So we’re working through that with each individual centre, and I’m not going to set a hard and fast rule around that. We are going to continue to support early learning services during level 3 so that we know that they’ll be there when we move to level 2. Media : Teachers are telling us it’s impossible to socially distance children under five. You have young children; how would you do it? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, as I’ve been very clear, one of the reasons that we’ve got guidance—and the director-general, I’m sure, would be happy to comment on this—one of the reasons we’ve got the public health guidance out there that we have is that we know that when you’re dealing with a small group of very young children—you know, under-five-year-olds—they are going to come into contact with each other, they are going to need to be picked up now and then by an adult, and so that physical distancing isn’t going to be possible in that environment. So there are other things that we can put in place there: keeping the bubble size quite small, making sure that we’re doing all of the hygiene things we need to do, and, of course, the work that we have all done as a country over the last four weeks to minimise the risk of COVID-19 coming through the door in the first place. Media : And can I just [ Inaudible ] comments that the director-general made yesterday. You said that children don’t tend to pass COVID-19 on to adults. What evidence or peer-reviewed literature are you basing that claim on? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the first evidence that came out about this was from the WHO-China combined reviewed in China, particularly in Wuhan, which was a 10-day mission there. And that report came out in March, and that was very clear—in fact, of all the people they interviewed who had been involved in dealing with COVID-19, not one could recall any incidence of a child passing an infection to an adult— Media : So it’s anecdotal. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : —and this seems to be the pattern that has been found in other countries. And we’ve, of course, got it here in New Zealand: just a small number of our cases are in under-10-year-olds, for a start, and all of those are actually linked to transmission within the family setting. Media : The epidemiologists and paediatricians that we’ve spoken to say that there’s conflicting evidence that that’s the case and it’s too early to draw a conclusion. What’s your response to them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think there’s always emerging evidence. At the moment, I think the weight of evidence does suggest exactly as we’ve laid out in our public health advice, and we will keep watching that. But I should say that the fundamentals of public health and how it’s being applied in the education setting are the same as what we’re advising and are being applied in other settings. So it is the physical distancing, the small groups—if there is, and very unlikely, that a case come through the gate, it’s confined to a small group if there is any close contact. But I just would reiterate the point the Minister has made: you know, we’re announcing five cases today. We can trace them to extant cases, and we’re going back and scrutinising every case back to 1 April, but at the moment there are only four cases left where we’re not sure exactly the route of transmission—but even then, it’s reasonably clear in two of them where the infection was first got, and it pre-dated, actually, the lockdown. So there’s increasingly encouraging information that the likelihood of someone with COVID-19 going through the school gate, as the Minister said, is very, very low in the first place. Media : Minister, if you’re saying that it’s safe enough to open schools and for these students to be back, why not open up schools completely, if you’re confident that they don’t transmit the disease? Hon Chris Hipkins : Because one of the things that gives us confidence is that ability when we have a smaller number in an early learning service or in a school—that smaller number is a key part of our ability to keep people in smaller bubbles, to stop those bubbles coming into contact with one another. If you start to have services and schools operating at full capacity, that becomes a lot more difficult. So I’m confident that at level 3 they can operate not at full strength but for a smaller number. Media : Will teachers have the option to say, “No, I don’t feel safe coming to work; I don’t want to.”? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we do expect teachers to be doing their bit. My message to those who are in a higher-risk bracket—either because they themselves are a higher-risk category or because they’ve got someone living in their household who is in a higher-risk category—is make sure you’re talking to your school or your early learning service about that, because we’re going to need people continuing to support the students who are distance learning as well. And so the pragmatic and sensible thing for schools to do is have those teachers who are in a higher-risk bracket supporting distance learning so that those who are at lower risk can be in the physical school environment. Media : Minister, the principal of Te Kura o Otangarei, Myles Ferris, says that principals should be making the final call on whether they should open schools. What you say to that? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, I think that would put principals in a very difficult position. If they are concerned that too many of their parents are asking to send their kids to school, then I do want them to contact the Ministry of Education, but I don’t want the schools to be put in the position of being police around whether or not parents have a good enough reason to send their kids to school. I think that puts them in a very difficult position. It could potentially strain their relationships with their parent communities quite substantially. So my message to them is if you’re concerned that too many of your families are putting their hand up and saying “We’re sending our kids to school or to early learning.”, talk to the Ministry of Education about that. But my message to all New Zealanders is if you can keep your kids at home, please do keep your kids at home. Media : You said that 80,000 packs have been sent out in English, 10,000 in Māori. How many packs are still yet to be sent out? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, our capacity to send those out is growing by the day—you know, we’re continuing to grow our ability to do that. We know that we could send—the supply line where we’ve got it set up now is capable of supplying about half a million packs if we need to do that, and, obviously, the longer this goes on and the longer we need to keep supplying that material, then we will continue to do that. Media : Dr Bloomfield, I have a question around hospital and aged care facility visits. Will restrictions under level 3 change? Will people be able to visit their dying loved ones now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’re still working on that guidance and working with our hospitals and aged care facilities. We’ve seen in New Zealand, even under the lockdown, a number of clusters inside aged residential care facilities, so in that setting I think we want to be particularly careful. But I am very keen to extend the compassionate—there already exists an opportunity for people to visit loved ones who are dying, under compassionate grounds. That is not the case if the person has COVID-19. You’ll recognise there is that restriction. It’s that latter that we’re particularly looking at, whether there may be any flexibility under alert level 3. Media : What about hospitals for, like, pregnant women? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, those are being reviewed, so we will make announcements further on. Media : Is there enough so that health care workers can have adequate PPE around COVID cases who are vulnerable or have underlying conditions? Is there an argument that family members with the right PPE should be allowed in there as well, and why not get a bit more cracking with that work so that people aren’t left alone without their families? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so the work is cracking along, and that is one option—is to make PPE available for family members in that situation. Media : Just back on schools, what the public health implications of those schools that operate in modern learning environments? You talked about the issue of open spaces. As I understand it, some MLEs also have less favourable ratios of students to bathrooms and wash basins. So what are the unique challenges that are posed by MLEs, and how can the Government, sort of, deal with those? Hon Chris Hipkins : So the Ministry of Education are working with schools over the coming week to deal with all of their individual needs and requirements. My key message, again, is we want to have as few students at school as possible, because even in a modern learning environment, if you can keep the numbers low enough, there are ways to manage that. One of the things the Ministry of Education are working through with schools are things like cleaning, for example—so if you’ve got different groups of students using the same bathrooms, can they be cleaned in between so that you’re keeping that bubble nice and tight. So all of those logistical things are being worked through with schools and early learning services over the coming week. Media : Dr Bloomfield, GPs were expecting a second wave of funding to get them through the second half of the lockdown, but that hasn’t happened. How come? Hon Chris Hipkins : We were just talking about that before, and I’ll let the director-general answer that question. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thanks, Minister. So there have been two payments already to primary care, to GPs: an initial payment of $15 million and then a further payment of $11 million out around the country to help offset the costs of their response to COVID-19. There is an active conversation between the Minister and general practice leaders and the ministry on further funding. So that’s ongoing, and I can’t comment any further on it. Media : When you said that $11 million was promised to them, though, and now is being withheld from them—a lot of them have budgeted and staffed for that $11 million to be in their bank accounts, and now it’s just being taken away from them. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t think it’s been taken away, but the conversation is ongoing and active between those three parties, as I said, about any further funding that is needed to support the COVID-19 response that is happening in primary care. Media : So was the $11 million extra promised to them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t comment on that. I know the conversation’s ongoing. Media : [ Inaudible ] a morale issue, from what I’ve been told, if they’ve been promised the funding, they’re trying to ramp up for the tsunami of patients that they’re expecting after the lockdown, and then they’ve been told that and they just don’t feel valued because they were expecting this money, they’ve spent it in their heads, so— Hon Chris Hipkins : So I think, as the director-general has just said, conversations between general practitioners and the Minister of Health is continuing. So my advice to them would be to continue that discussion, and we’ll be monitoring that closely. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you tell us just a bit more about the treatment for those patients in ICU? Are new drugs being used? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At this stage, no new drugs are being used, but you will have seen the announcement last week by the Health Research Council: at least two of the studies funded by the Health Research Council, and some in partnership with the Ministry of Health, are looking at treatments for, particularly, people who are hospitalised and with severe symptoms. Of course, because of the approach New Zealand has taken here, we’ve had not only a low-ish number of cases but low hospitalisation rates, and so people have been able to be treated, including in ICU, in the most part successfully. So those trials would only go ahead if our case numbers started to increase, and they are linked up to international trials, too. Media : And also, do you think it’s necessary for the Auditor-General to independently review the management of PPE, and what do you think will come out of that review? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, well, I don’t want to pre-empt what the Auditor-General will find, but I’m certainly happy and very pleased that he’s going to do this, that he and his workers are, and I think we’re expecting the results in about four weeks’ time. So I’m very open to scrutiny and review of what we have done and any feedback on how that could be done better. Media : Director-General, do you think that you could’ve done a better job getting that out, because there’s a sentiment there that people feel like they’re not protected. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think this is a topic we’ve covered repeatedly. Look, I think we have stood up a system nationwide to ensure that our stocks we have are distributed around the country, that we have taken on that responsibility to distribute it to a whole range of providers that previously we wouldn’t have, and that we have done that successfully. We have also ensured good supply lines, and I look forward to any recommendations that the Auditor-General has got about how we could continue to improve that. Media : It’s a topic that comes up repeatedly because you keep offering reassurances and we keep hearing from front-line health workers saying they don’t have adequate PPE. You’ve stated that they have plenty of it, that hospitals aren’t recycling gear to reuse it; we know that’s incorrect, so why should Kiwi health workers have confidence in what you’re saying in these press conferences? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, because I can reassure them, and the feedback I get from many workers around the country—and if I ever hear of any issues, I ring the relevant DHB chief executive. I know they are taking a very personal interest in this. There is very good distribution of PPE. If any issues arise, then those are looked into. That doesn’t mean that on any one day, a DHB will be able to distribute all the PPE that a certain provider thinks they need on that day, but that also doesn’t mean there’s a problem in the system. Secondly, on the recycling, what I do understand—and I think you’ve said that that’s incorrect—actually, in the Auckland region, they are retaining used N95 masks because there is very good evidence from overseas that these can be cleaned and reused if necessary, so they are putting them aside, but there is no reuse of those happening. They have new N95 masks every time they need to use them. Media : Is it the DHB managers who are at fault with regards to not allowing staff to wear masks when they want to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I trust DHB managers to do their job in clinical situations, with the best clinical advice, which they do get, from their infectious diseases specialists and their infection prevention and control teams. And it’s not my job to second-guess those individual interactions between clinicians and those who are leading them in their clinical settings. Media : Can you provide any information in regards to reports that a New Zealander died of COVID in Peru, and whether he was meant to be on that mercy flight? Hon Chris Hipkins : My understanding is, yes, a New Zealander has passed away in Peru. I also understand that that family was being actively supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and that they’ve asked for some privacy, and so I can’t really divulge any further details on that. Media : Do you have any numbers on how many students can’t access distance learning yet? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we know, when we started this exercise, our estimate was that around 80,000 households did not have a broadband connection and that that could cover up to 145,000 learners. I’m confident that—as you will have heard the numbers—we’re getting more and more households connected by the day, and, with 80-90,000 hard packs of materials being shipped out and more on the way, that we are getting people connected one way or the other, even if it’s an old-fashioned connection through the courier service, and, of course, through the television networks that we’ve got up and running, where we’re providing support to those households, as well. Media : Are you able to say whether that man was meant to be on one of the mercy flights? Had he been in contact with the consulate there? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, I’m not in a position to be able to divulge those details. I got the information relatively briefly before this press conference, but if we are able to release that information, I’ll make sure that it is released. Media : On those repatriation flights, are there any more planned? Hon Chris Hipkins : Yes, there is further work—I think it’s well known there’s further work with India, for example, around repatriation flights there. I understand that there was a flight from the Philippines. I think it landed yesterday and has now returned. So there are repatriation efforts ongoing. I do want to say that this is the largest consular effort around the world that the New Zealand Government has ever undertaken, so it is a huge effort, and where we can, we’re working very closely to make sure that we can get Kiwis home and get those who are in New Zealand who want to get home also home, but there are a whole lot of constraints around that. Media : Any more details about that India flight in terms of timing? Hon Chris Hipkins : Yes, I do, and I can give that to you. I got some dates before I came down here; I’ll just have to find the right piece of paper that’s got the exact dates on it. In fact, it’s the one on top. So my understanding is that the first flight out of India will depart on 24 April. After that departure, we’re expecting a further flight from New Delhi and a flight from Mumbai, expecting those will be spaced 24 hours to 48 hours apart so that the relevant practical arrangements can be made both on the Indian side and on the New Zealand side. The commercial Philippine Airlines flight that repatriated 167 New Zealanders and permanent residents and 37 third-country nationals with valid visas landed in Auckland yesterday and returned to Manila shortly afterwards carrying 63 Filipino residents. Media : Mr Hipkins, what advice are you getting on the impact, especially on those students sitting NCEA, looking at those big exams this year—impact on them, and what are you looking at in terms of, maybe a bit further down the line, the support that you can give to them so that they’re either not going to fail or have to come back and repeat a year? Hon Chris Hipkins : So I guess my first message to them is: make sure they’re preserving their mental health, make sure they’re preserving their wellbeing in this very difficult time, don’t let themselves get totally strung out about it. NZQA have supplied to schools, and indirectly through schools to learners, guidance on the sorts of things they can do to generate an evidence base for assessment when more regular assessment can start to take place. Guidance has been supplied to schools about the sorts of evidence that they should be looking to gather so that in the event that a student cannot do an exam at the end of the year, that that derived grade process that we would normally rely on can still take place. Media : So there might be a bit of aggregating or— Hon Chris Hipkins : That’s possible. Of course, we’re moving to an online assessment environment with NZQA, and we’re speeding that up now as a result of this so that we can get more online assessment taking place, and NZQA is leaning very heavily into that. But, again, I do want to reiterate that many students will now spread their NCEA levels over several years. So if you’re doing level 1 this year and you don’t quite finish it because of the lockdown, you’ll be able to finish that next year as you start to do your level 2. And schools are working very, very hard to be able to, sort of, slide things around to accommodate that for students. Media : So we had a story this week about year 11 to 13 in particular doing more practical, onsite-based learning. Are they a specific group that you’d have concerns about? I mean, are they disadvantaged or limited more than doing other subjects, for example? Hon Chris Hipkins : There’s some things that they can often do from home—so they can do the theoretical components of their work from home. There may be some limitations—if you’re doing a science subject for example—to some of the practical exercises you might not be able to do from home, but I know that schools are working very hard to slide that around. So I think the bits that can be done remotely are being done remotely so that when the students are back in the classroom, they could pick up some of the more—you know, the things that require them to be there physically. Media : Sorry, just coming back to my original question, what advice have you got on the impact on general educational outcomes, or is it too early? Hon Chris Hipkins : It is too early, but, if you look at the Christchurch earthquake scenario, where schools were closed for quite some time and kids did lose quite a block of learning, that didn’t flow through into lower NCEA pass rates at the end of that year. In fact, if anything, those pass rates were slightly better, on average, than they would normally have been. Media : Minister, will police be given the same powers under the Health Act at level 3 as they do at level 4? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, that’s something that the director-general might be in a better position to answer around the enforcement of level 3. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So what I can say is we are preparing a new section 71 notice under the Health Act that will apply under level 3. And, yes, it will create the same legal basis for police to be able to enforce the expectations on the public around staying at home, not congregating, and not opening certain facilities. So those powers will be similar but tailored specifically for alert level 3. Media : And just another question on behalf of a colleague: should community midwives be compensated for extra hours they are working during the lockdown and the extra PPE that they are buying themselves? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the College of Midwives and our community-based midwives is one of the groups. In fact, we’re working with each group—pharmacists, midwives, other community-based providers—to look at what their extra costs are during this period of time, and there is work under way to ensure that they are funded for any additional costs that they’re incurring. Media : Is it fair for our front-line health workers, including GPs, to be worried about costs at a time where they’re trying to fight COVID? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think the Government’s moved very quickly, and we’ve provided advice right from early on and have been in active discussion with the full range of professional groups about extra costs they are incurring because of this, and you’ve seen the Government make a series of announcements about extra funding going to a wide range of groups to help support them so that they can continue to provide the services New Zealanders need. Media : Do you, by any chance, have the latest numbers on how many people have come through Government-managed quarantine isolation? Hon Chris Hipkins: Yes, I do. Again, I’ll make sure I get the right piece of paper so I give you the latest numbers. As of 10 a.m. this morning, we have 2,038 in managed isolation or quarantine, which is up 165; we have 1,952 in managed isolation, up 168; and we’ve got 86 in quarantine, which is down three—348 arrived on flights yesterday. Media : Sorry, was that both managed isolation—the two numbers? Hon Chris Hipkins: In managed isolation, we’ve got 1,952. Media : Minister, going back to early childhood, if kōhanga reo decide to stay closed during level 3 and continue distance learning, firstly, are they able to make that decision, and, secondly, if so, will they continue to be funded? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, my advice to all early learning services is talk to the Ministry of Education. Our preference is that those services re-open if they can do so consistent with public health advice. That’s our expectation. There are families out there who are relying on those services in order to be able to put food on the table, and we need those young people learning as well. So if they’re in a position to re-open, then they should. If for some reason there are unique circumstances that mean that they cannot re-open consistent with the public health guidance that’s been issued, then I’d expect that they talk to the Ministry of Education. Media : But do they have the capacity to say to the ministry, “We don’t believe that it’s safe to open, so we won’t.”—is that reason enough? Hon Chris Hipkins : I think that they should follow the public health advice, which is what we’re asking all other New Zealanders to follow. Media : [ Inaudible ] I’ve got an education question and a Leader of the House question. Education: what about those university students who can’t return to their halls? Will they be getting funding? And then Leader of the House with regard to if Parliament comes back: will the Epidemic Response Committee become redundant? Hon Chris Hipkins : So in terms of students who are unable to return to where they were studying because they cannot travel—so they’ve returned home, for example—last week, we announced an extension of student support limits so that they’ll continue to be supported during a period of inactivity. So they’ll continue to be able to access their student support, their student allowances, their student loans, and so on, even if they’re not active in their studies, so they’ll still be able to get that financial support. In terms of the epidemic response select committee that was set up whilst Parliament was not sitting, whilst its role might change slightly as we’re in level 3, I envisage—and this is all subject to discussion at the Business Committee—that there will continue to be a role for that committee in scrutinising, for example, legislation that is related to the epidemic response. So whilst question time resumes, and some of that accountability that you’ve seen delivered through the select committee—while that will shift back to the House, actually, the committee, I think, would continue to have an ongoing role. Media : Dr Bloomfield, just in regards to this ongoing debate about Australia being able to have fewer restrictions in terms of people going back to work but having similar health outcomes to New Zealand, Michael Baker said this morning that, basically, New Zealand had to go harder earlier because we had a lower base in terms of our public health infrastructure and testing. How does that reconcile with your comments yesterday that Australia is envious of our public health system? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, just on the latter, two different things, I think: when you’re talking about public health system, our public health services, which comprise, effectively, our public health units, our ESR laboratory and capacity and also our ministry capacity around public health, that’s different from our publicly funded healthcare system. So I was responding yesterday around our publicly funded healthcare system, which I think you were comparing and contrasting with Australia. In terms of the first issue, I just have a different view from Michael on this. I think if you look at our response, which has been led by, first and foremost, the Ministry of Health and the healthcare system and our public health units, it’s done a very good job. That’s why we are in the position we are in. Does it need to be strengthened in many areas? Yes, it does, and in particular, strengthening the national networking of that system. So, yes, that is happening. And, again, also, to go back to the comments that Dr Murphy made at the Epidemic Response Committee last week, in fact, the reality is that Australia’s response, and particularly in some states, is very similar—the actual impact of it is very similar to New Zealand, so I don’t think there’s that big a difference between our two responses. Media : How will Parliament resume? Will all Ministers be required to attend Parliament when it resumes? Hon Chris Hipkins : Certainly, we’ll be endeavouring to get Ministers to Wellington who are involved in the COVID response so that they can answer questions. We won’t have the entire Cabinet at Parliament, and we won’t have all of our backbenchers at Parliament, because we’re endeavouring to do what we’re asking the rest of the country to do, which is to minimise the amount of movement around the country that they need to do. But my understanding is that key roles like the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, and then, obviously, the Ministers who you’ve seen quite a bit of in the last few weeks will all be available to answer questions in the House. We think that’s an important part of the parliamentary process that we are here. Media : And why has the Prime Minister stopped giving these daily briefings? Hon Chris Hipkins : Sorry, what was that? Media : Why is the Prime Minister not here for the daily briefings? Hon Chris Hipkins : I don’t think she’s done every single daily briefing since this started. From time to time, there are other things that she also needs to attend to— Media : Why not today? Hon Chris Hipkins : —so I am here today in her stead. But I’m sure she’ll be back tomorrow. Media : [Inaudible] Why is she not here today? Hon Chris Hipkins : Well, you can ask her that tomorrow, if you like. Media : Just a supp on the parliamentary process: you talked about Parliament only considering urgent COVID-related legislation. There’s been some concern about select committees still carrying out their work on non-COVID legislation, the prisoner voting bill being one example. Is the Government, or is Labour going to talk to its select committee chairs and ask that they reconsider that in light of the approach the Government is taking? Hon Chris Hipkins: Well, look, I think one of the key messages is MPs aren’t just sitting at home doing nothing. Actually, we’re continuing to be paid as well, and we should continue to work from home where we can. And so where select committees can continue to do their work from home, you know, by having remote hearings, for example, hearing submissions from the public, that’s a sensible thing to do. It doesn’t put anybody’s health at risk. People are Zooming all over the country—you know, virtually Zooming all over the country—and there’s no harm in select committees continuing to do that as well. So I think that there’s a judgment exercise here, but I’m certainly not going to say to people—to committees who are keen to continue their work—that they should stop their work. If they’re not even leaving the house and they’re able to do that using, you know, technology, then I think it’s perfectly acceptable for them to do that. Media: With some MPs travelling to Parliament on that week of the 29 th , does that mean that other New Zealanders can jump on a plane and travel round if they feel that they have urgent business as well, or that they would consider business that needed, required, travel? Is that setting an example that you want people— Hon Chris Hipkins: No. There are very clear guidelines around who can or cannot travel during both level 4 and level 3, and members of Parliament fall into the category where if they have to be at Parliament, then they fit within the exemption that exists there. But all New Zealanders are expected to follow that guidance. Media: Do they pose a particular risk, though, because they’ve been spread out over the country and are coming to one place? Does that—obviously, there’ll be distancing and rules, but— Hon Chris Hipkins: Well, most members of Parliament have been at home in their bubbles, same as everybody else. Of course, we will be making sure that we put all of the different protection measures in place around Parliament that we can, including social distancing, physical distancing. And my message to all MPs is I think, you know, only MPs should be coming to Parliament if they really need to be here, so the arrangements of that are all subject to agreement at the Business Committee tomorrow. But certainly, on the Government side, we’ll have a very minimal backbench MP presence during this time. We’re keeping in contact with our backbench using Zoom and everything else. We will have Ministers here who need to answer questions, because that’s actually a very important part of the public accountability process, but we won’t have people here if we don’t think they need to be here. And that would be my message to all of the other parties, as well. Media: Is the expectation that the political parties use their most local MPs, so to speak, so you’re minimising travel? Hon Chris Hipkins: That will be a key focus for us. We do have a number of MPs, for example, who can drive to Wellington rather than have to fly, and so—Ministers who can drive to Wellington rather than fly—and so we’ve been encouraging that where it’s possible. There are some who will need to fly, for example the Minister of Health. I think there is an appetite to see him back at Parliament so that he can be questioned by the Opposition, and he will have to fly in order to be able to get here, but Ministers and MPs shouldn’t be flying if they don’t have to. Media: Dr Bloomfield, have you provided any advice to the Deputy Prime Minister on whether it’s suitable for him to return given his age? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I haven’t. Media: Dr Bloomfield, could I ask you what the ministry’s opinion of testing elderly patients is? Ryman Healthcare requires all elderly patients returning from hospital to return a negative test, but Hutt Valley DHB won’t test the patients then; it’s the ministry’s position. Can you tell us why they’re different? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, we’ve had an ongoing discussion with the aged residential care sector about the necessity and, indeed, wisdom of testing every person being admitted to an aged residential care facility. So yes, the DHB is consistent with the very good advice and policy that is currently the one we are using, and we’ll keep discussing with the aged residential care association both testing and also what other things they can do to protect residents and staff. Media: Is it safe for the Deputy Prime Minister to return to work, to Parliament? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what I’d refer you back to is the—when the Prime Minister was asked about this question when we first went into, I think, level 4 lockdown, the Deputy Prime Minister is considered an essential worker, and so under that category, then, it’s appropriate for him to return to Parliament. Media: He’s also a septuagenarian, though, so is it safe for him? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the measures that are being put in place—and Minister Hipkins has talked about those—both here and in every workplace are designed to protect all New Zealanders. Media : Minister, just on progressing legislation, particularly contentious legislation like prisoner voting, do you think it’s appropriate for it to be progressing, particularly when people have the pandemic on their minds? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we won’t be progressing it through the House during level 3. That doesn’t mean, as I’ve said, that select committees can’t continue to meet if they can do so consistent with the guidance that’s out there for everybody else, which is to work from home where they can. So if they can continue to work from home, they can hear submissions from home, there is actually no harm in doing that. So it’s perfectly acceptable for them to do that, but we won’t be progressing it in the House. Media : Just on community testing, Dr Bloomfield—sorry if I’ve missed this earlier—do you have a total number of tests that have been carried out at these centres? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry, a number of tests that have been carried out—? Media : At the community testing centres—the targeted community testing. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We do have the numbers of those. I don’t have them with me today. I think I’ve spoken to those over the last few days. It was—I won’t try and do them off the top of my head, but you’ll probably find them in our earlier media releases. Media : So, Minister, just—not to labour the point, but Dr Bloomfield referred to your measures that you would use to keep the Deputy Prime Minister safe. What are those measures? Hon Chris Hipkins : Well, we’ll be putting in place measures to keep everybody safe, as other workplaces around the country are doing. So we’re keeping our presence here at Parliament down to a core group of people who are absolutely essential. That includes parliamentary staff. So Ministers like me, I’ll be in my office by myself, or maybe with one or two others. All my staff will continue to work from home and support me from home rather than coming back. So we’re keeping our numbers here at Parliament as small as we possibly can. We’ll be maintaining social distancing right the way through the parliamentary complex. You will remember from the brief period that we had at level 3 before Parliament shut down that that has implications for the public spaces at Parliament, for example, so we are maintaining distancing on the tiles and those sorts of things to ensure that we’re doing all of that, and in the debating chamber we’re maintaining our distancing. So we are doing what we’re asking every other workplace in the country to do, which is to make sure that you’re being as safe as possible and you’re acting consistent with the public health advice. Media : Are you aware of any people that have caught COVID-19 who have worked in the parliamentary precinct? Hon Chris Hipkins : No, I’m not. Media : It’s been hard enough to convince our free-spirited and iron-willed older New Zealanders to stay put anyway, so shouldn’t the Deputy Prime Minister be leading by example, because other 70-plus people are going to be wanting to leave their houses and perhaps return to work as well, against your advice? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, you’re welcome to ask the Deputy Prime Minister that question, but I certainly—if he wants to come back to Wellington and he’s available to come back to Wellington to answer questions, then I certainly would fully support him in his decision to do so. Media : Minister, in relation to the repatriation flights, are they all coming back to Auckland or will some of them come back to quarantine in Wellington and Christchurch? Hon Chris Hipkins : My understanding is that the flights to date have all landed in Auckland, but I can’t comment on what might happen in the future. Media : The India flights—specifically the India flights, because if they were coming back to Wellington and Christchurch, wouldn’t you need to have set up quarantine facilities here, because all of them are already in Auckland? Is that—am I wrong or—? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, my understanding is that the flights thus far have landed in Auckland. In terms of what may happen in the future around future repatriation flights, of course we will communicate those details to the public as and when we have those details available. Media : But the flights from India are coming soon, so assuming the Government knows where they’re going to put those people? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, like I said, I’m not in a position to release those details now. A lot of that work is still being done. A lot of the logistics of planning those flights, of working out who’s going to be on those flights—a lot of that detailed work is still being done. Media : That person from Peru, are they counted as a New Zealand statistic, a New Zealander, or will they—yeah? Hon Chris Hipkins : I don’t think they’re counted as a New Zealand statistic. I’ll just— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No. No, they wouldn’t be. Hon Chris Hipkins : Last question. Media : Just very quickly, are you aware of Iona Holsted, the Education secretary, signing off an agreement with kōhanga reo and kura kaupapas and wānanga to let them determine themselves whether they will open or not? Hon Chris Hipkins : No, that’s not something that I’ve been briefed on. Media : Can I ask just a final question on midwives. Do you recognise how much more difficult those community midwives—how much more difficult their role has been during the lockdown in terms of doing those face-to-face meetings with mothers, mothers being asked to leave hospital earlier, etc., etc., etc.? Hon Chris Hipkins : Yes, and, look, I acknowledge that level 4 lockdown has been really challenging for a lot of people, and particularly people who are working in those critical health workforces. You know, babies don’t stop coming just because we’re in level 4 lockdown. So I take my hat off to all of those who are working in that field and I thank them for the work and for the extra measures that they’ve put in place to keep themselves and to keep the families who they’re working with safe. Media : And you are promising some Government support for them? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, I’m not in a position to make announcements on that today. Thanks, everybody. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Kia ora. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou katoa. It’s day 27 of our lockdown, and we remain at alert level 4. We’ll be waking up to alert level 3 next Tuesday morning. Today, I’m here to set out what moving to alert level 3 next will look like for our schools, our early learning services, and our tertiary institutions, and also a little bit of a comment on what it might mean here at Parliament. I’ll update you on the Government’s engagement with the education sector to get ready to move to level 3, including key decisions and dates. We’ll talk more about the health guidance around the spread of COVID-19 amongst children—and I’m sure the director-general will also comment on that—how our response in education compares internationally, I can give you the latest information on our distance learning programme, and I’ll also brief you a little bit about how Parliament may operate under level 3. But first I’ll hand over to the Director-General of Health to give you his usual update. Thank you, Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So, today, New Zealand’s total number of new COVID-19 cases is five, made up of two new confirmed cases and three probable cases. All of these new cases are linked to existing cases. The new combined total of both confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is 1,445. Sadly, today I am reporting the death of a woman in her 70s who had COVID-19 infection. This woman was one of six residents from St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home in Te Atatū in Auckland who has been transferred to Waitakare Hospital on 17 April. The woman, who had an underlying health condition, died yesterday. Our thoughts are with this woman’s family and friends, and we ask that their privacy is respected at this difficult time. Now, residents were transferred from St Margaret’s as a number of staff were in precautionary—and continue to be in precautionary—self-isolation following close contact with people who are confirmed COVID-19 cases, and this has impacted on the facility’s ability to maintain full staffing. And so, in addition to those six residents who were transferred to Waitakere Hospital because they had COVID-19 infection, a further nine residents from St Margaret’s were transferred to North Shore Hospital on 18 April. These residents are not COVID-19 positive but are considered close contacts so are being monitored as well as receiving the usual care they would have if they had been back at St Margaret’s. There are now 1,006 cases of COVID-19 who have recovered, an increase on 32 yesterday. Today, there are 12 people in hospital with COVID-19 infection. This includes three in ICUs in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore Hospital. I’m pleased to say that none of these people are in a critical condition. There are still 16 significant clusters, and four more cases have been linked to extant clusters, including three of the cases we’re reporting today. In terms of testing, yesterday there were 3,203 tests processed around the country, and the new total is now 89,503. The stock in supply for testing is still over 83,000 complete tests. And just a word on testing—and we will put these graphs on our website after today’s stand up, but we are seeing from ESR reporting surveillance of what is called influenza-like illness that calls to Healthline, and our monitoring of ILI through HealthStat, which is through general practices, and through the FluTracker app, as well as our monitoring of what are called SARI—Severe Acute Respiratory Infections in hospital—have all plummeted, as we might expect, over this last three to four weeks. And that explains—that’s a very good reason for why our testing has dropped, because there simply are not people out there who have got respiratory symptoms. However, I’m still pleased to see that we’re processing over 3,000 tests a day. We will continue some community-based testing this week and, in particular, that’s happening in Tai Rāwhiti, in Taranaki, and in Northland. And I know in Tai Rāwhiti—and you can see this on their website—during this week there are mobile clinics around Gisborne from Monday to Friday and, starting today, some mobile testing moving its way up the East Coast to test those more rural communities. I’ll finish there and hand back to you, Minister. Hon Chris Hipkins : Thank you, Director-General. The first thing I’d like to do is give you a brief update on what will happen here at Parliament next week. As we move to level 3, Parliament will meet again on Tuesday, 28 April. The exact details for Parliament’s sitting next week will be confirmed following a meeting of the Business Committee tomorrow, but I do expect that the sitting will adopt the same practices that New Zealanders across the country will use during their working day at level 3, and that includes the correct physical distancing in the debating chamber. I also expect that there’ll be reduced numbers of MPs in the House in order to minimise the amount of travel that MPs will be undertaking. As you all know, many of the normal facilities in the parliamentary complex, including the Copperfield’s cafe and other catering facilities, will not be available whilst the House is operating, and we will be keeping as few essential people around the complex as possible. For this reason, we can expect that the normal sitting hours of the House will vary over the next three weeks. Business to be considered by Parliament will include question time, ministerial statements, essential urgent legislation that’s directly related to the COVID-19 response, and any other urgent Government business that is essential to keeping Government functioning whilst we prepare to deliver this year’s Budget. The Government has undertaken not to progress its normal legislative programme while we are at alert level 3. I’m happy to take questions at the end on Parliament, but in terms of turning to education, under alert level 3 most children and young people will be continuing distance learning. Early learning centres and schools will be physically open for students up to year 10 for the families that need that, but children who can stay home should stay home. At-risk students and staff, including those who are over the age of 70, should also stay home, and they will be supported to do so. Residential and special schools will not reopen in the early stages of alert level 3 for children to physically attend. They may reopen later during alert level 3 if public health measures can be managed, and we are working through that at the moment. In the meantime, teachers and staff will continue to support these students whilst they remain at home. Things like the Intensive Wraparound Service and ORS specialists continue to work with those students whilst they are at home. Education for students in years 11 to 13 will continue remotely. For tertiary education, moving to alert level 3 means remote learning will continue, but where that’s not possible, some facilities may reopen with strict physical distancing rules in place. Students in hostels, halls of residence, or self-contained flats can stay there—again, with strict rules—but if students went home to join their family bubble, they must stay home. They cannot return to student accommodation whilst we are at alert level 3. Providers are contacting their staff and students directly with more information, so they should be the first port of call for parents and students with questions. To prepare schools and early childhood centres to reopen next week, from today we are allowing people to enter schools and early learning services for the purposes of cleaning, maintenance, and any other essential preparations that are required for them to reopen for a teacher-only day on Tuesday, 28 April. We expect most children who need to attend will be able to attend from 29 April. I do want to caution, though: it may take a bit longer for some schools and early learning services to be ready, and the Ministry of Education will be working closely with all of them. This is not a normal situation, and we will need to be doing things differently. The Ministry of Education’s been meeting with sector groups to work through all of the practical issues. Over the last week, the ministry’s kept in close contact with the early childhood education advisory group, and this’ll continue as we continue to work through the key guidance that’s needed to support the early learning sector. We’ve also met with various principals’ groups around the country and with sector leaders, and we’ll continue to do so. Discussions with the sector will continue as more detailed advice is released over the next week to support schools and early learning services. Our approach to reopening the education system is based on the latest public health advice. I know that physical distancing will be very difficult with children and young people, particularly the youngest children in early childhood education. We’ve reached the point where the Director-General of Health is confident that there is no widespread undetected community transmission in New Zealand, so the chance of it coming through the door or through the gate in the first place is low. Keeping in mind that there are some 400,000 people going to work under alert level 3, just as we need to keep them safe, we’re putting in place measures to keep children and teachers safe. At alert level 3, the approach in an ECE or school environment is designed to limit the number of people that children have contact with. All of the evidence does point to children having lower risk of getting infected and being affected by COVID-19, and it’s possible to ensure that children are within the same group each day and that there is no mixing between groups. To be clear, it is safe, from a public health perspective, to have a group of children learning together. Parents can have confidence that the proposed approach is designed to keep children and their families and their teachers safe. It’s really important, though, that parents fully support this approach by doing their bit: keep children home if you can, definitely keep children home if they are unwell and seek medical advice about whether a child may need to be tested, strictly maintain your family bubble outside of schools and early learning, and ensure that great hygiene practices are observed at all times. Our return to education, along with restarting our economy, is largely on par with what we’re seeing around the rest of the world, although New Zealand is within a handful of countries in the enviable position of being able to transition out of lockdown and through the alert levels, so we must take the best position for our own needs. Distance learning is going to be with us for some time, for at least another three weeks, and I’d like to give you a brief update on the roll-out of the distance learning programme. We’ve started the distribution of 6,700 internet routers to households. Initially, those are being prioritised to schools that have students doing NCEA in deciles 1 to 3. We’ve also had 10,000 devices being distributed by schools to students, more than 1,250 internet-ready computers—that’s either Chromebooks or laptops—have been shipped to students so far, and an additional 4,500 have landed in New Zealand and are being prepared for shipping. Again, the priority is NCEA students in deciles 1 to 3. We have further equipment waiting to be shipped from overseas. In terms of the hard packs of materials that are going out to those who don’t have access to digital devices, I can confirm that so far we have sent out 80,000 packs in English and 10,000 packs in Māori. And we know that people are tuning into our TV channels to see familiar faces like Suzy Cato on the box. The latest information we’ve got is that 649,000 people tuned in during the first three days last week. The parental pages from the Ministry of Education’s website had over 100,000 visits over those three days. So I want to thank the profession for their goodwill and their professionalism. To teachers, principals, and centre leaders, they’ve got an important role to play in getting New Zealand back on its feet; I know they know that, and I want to thank them for it. So, finally, to all of the parents out there who I know are juggling working from home, caring for your kids, my message to you is the same as it’s been since the beginning: be kind to yourself. We are not expecting parents to completely replace the classroom environment at home, so be reasonable in your expectations of yourselves. These are extraordinary times, so thank you for your understanding. We’re doing our very best to minimise the impact on children’s learning and on their wellbeing, as we work together to keep New Zealanders safe. Happy to answer questions. Minister Hipkins, what are you doing to help those schools who might be disproportionately affected because, for example, in areas where both parents have to go back to work or where distance learning isn’t an option? Hon Chris Hipkins : So, obviously, where both parents have to go back to work, where distance learning isn’t an option, that’s one of the reasons why we’re saying that we do need schools and early learning services to be able to provide support to those families. In some cases, it’s also going to be possible, as families look to slightly enlarge their bubble, for them to be sharing care arrangements across other close relatives, for example, so that those kids can stay at home if they don’t need to go back. Media : Aren’t there going to be some schools, just by dint of their decile or, you know, where they are and the parents work, that are going to be facing a lot more kids coming than some schools who are well set up for distance learning and may have more parents at home? I mean, is there a breakdown, and are you going to give specific support to those schools that may have many more kids than they might have anticipated or potentially be able to deal with? Hon Chris Hipkins : So one of the things that this week gives us—and next Tuesday, as well, gives us—is an opportunity for schools to touch base with their parent communities and get an understanding of how many kids are maybe needing to come through the door next week when schools and early learning services start to reopen for kids from next Wednesday. If you look at the overall numbers, we’re expecting around 400,000 New Zealanders to go back to work; we’re still expecting around a million New Zealanders to be at home. So even in the situations where parents are going back to work, it may be that there are other family arrangements that can be put in place for those kids not to need to go back to school, and we’d certainly—I’d certainly encourage that. So if you’re enlarging your bubble slightly by bringing in an aunty or an uncle or someone else who could be at home with the kids because they’re working from home anyway, that would be a good arrangement. Media : Are there going to be some situations, though, where schools are going to have to say “We can’t take your kid; we’ve already filled our complement, and we just can’t take any more.”, and what would the response be in that particular situation? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, it’s too early to say that. We’ve got—over this coming week, we’re keeping very, very closely in contact with schools so that if they do start to get concerned that they’re going to have a whole deluge of students that they couldn’t adhere to public health guidance in bringing them back through the school gate, then we’ll work with them, and it may be that we can help to spread some of that load. But it’s very early at this point. We only made these decisions very recently. So we do need to give the education system time to digest that and to reach out to their parent communities. Media : A lot of ECEs and schools that we’ve spoken to are extremely worried and many won’t be opening under level 3. Is that a choice that they can make? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we’re not being too heavy-handed in this. Obviously, I do want early learning services to reopen if they can. The arrangements are going to be different though, because different centres have different child populations, different needs. They’re physically quite different, so the physical layout of those services can be quite different—some are very, very open, and some of them have smaller rooms and smaller spaces that make preserving bubbles within them more possible. So we’re working through that with each individual centre, and I’m not going to set a hard and fast rule around that. We are going to continue to support early learning services during level 3 so that we know that they’ll be there when we move to level 2. Media : Teachers are telling us it’s impossible to socially distance children under five. You have young children; how would you do it? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, as I’ve been very clear, one of the reasons that we’ve got guidance—and the director-general, I’m sure, would be happy to comment on this—one of the reasons we’ve got the public health guidance out there that we have is that we know that when you’re dealing with a small group of very young children—you know, under-five-year-olds—they are going to come into contact with each other, they are going to need to be picked up now and then by an adult, and so that physical distancing isn’t going to be possible in that environment. So there are other things that we can put in place there: keeping the bubble size quite small, making sure that we’re doing all of the hygiene things we need to do, and, of course, the work that we have all done as a country over the last four weeks to minimise the risk of COVID-19 coming through the door in the first place. Media : And can I just [ Inaudible ] comments that the director-general made yesterday. You said that children don’t tend to pass COVID-19 on to adults. What evidence or peer-reviewed literature are you basing that claim on? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the first evidence that came out about this was from the WHO-China combined reviewed in China, particularly in Wuhan, which was a 10-day mission there. And that report came out in March, and that was very clear—in fact, of all the people they interviewed who had been involved in dealing with COVID-19, not one could recall any incidence of a child passing an infection to an adult— Media : So it’s anecdotal. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : —and this seems to be the pattern that has been found in other countries. And we’ve, of course, got it here in New Zealand: just a small number of our cases are in under-10-year-olds, for a start, and all of those are actually linked to transmission within the family setting. Media : The epidemiologists and paediatricians that we’ve spoken to say that there’s conflicting evidence that that’s the case and it’s too early to draw a conclusion. What’s your response to them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think there’s always emerging evidence. At the moment, I think the weight of evidence does suggest exactly as we’ve laid out in our public health advice, and we will keep watching that. But I should say that the fundamentals of public health and how it’s being applied in the education setting are the same as what we’re advising and are being applied in other settings. So it is the physical distancing, the small groups—if there is, and very unlikely, that a case come through the gate, it’s confined to a small group if there is any close contact. But I just would reiterate the point the Minister has made: you know, we’re announcing five cases today. We can trace them to extant cases, and we’re going back and scrutinising every case back to 1 April, but at the moment there are only four cases left where we’re not sure exactly the route of transmission—but even then, it’s reasonably clear in two of them where the infection was first got, and it pre-dated, actually, the lockdown. So there’s increasingly encouraging information that the likelihood of someone with COVID-19 going through the school gate, as the Minister said, is very, very low in the first place. Media : Minister, if you’re saying that it’s safe enough to open schools and for these students to be back, why not open up schools completely, if you’re confident that they don’t transmit the disease? Hon Chris Hipkins : Because one of the things that gives us confidence is that ability when we have a smaller number in an early learning service or in a school—that smaller number is a key part of our ability to keep people in smaller bubbles, to stop those bubbles coming into contact with one another. If you start to have services and schools operating at full capacity, that becomes a lot more difficult. So I’m confident that at level 3 they can operate not at full strength but for a smaller number. Media : Will teachers have the option to say, “No, I don’t feel safe coming to work; I don’t want to.”? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we do expect teachers to be doing their bit. My message to those who are in a higher-risk bracket—either because they themselves are a higher-risk category or because they’ve got someone living in their household who is in a higher-risk category—is make sure you’re talking to your school or your early learning service about that, because we’re going to need people continuing to support the students who are distance learning as well. And so the pragmatic and sensible thing for schools to do is have those teachers who are in a higher-risk bracket supporting distance learning so that those who are at lower risk can be in the physical school environment. Media : Minister, the principal of Te Kura o Otangarei, Myles Ferris, says that principals should be making the final call on whether they should open schools. What you say to that? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, I think that would put principals in a very difficult position. If they are concerned that too many of their parents are asking to send their kids to school, then I do want them to contact the Ministry of Education, but I don’t want the schools to be put in the position of being police around whether or not parents have a good enough reason to send their kids to school. I think that puts them in a very difficult position. It could potentially strain their relationships with their parent communities quite substantially. So my message to them is if you’re concerned that too many of your families are putting their hand up and saying “We’re sending our kids to school or to early learning.”, talk to the Ministry of Education about that. But my message to all New Zealanders is if you can keep your kids at home, please do keep your kids at home. Media : You said that 80,000 packs have been sent out in English, 10,000 in Māori. How many packs are still yet to be sent out? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, our capacity to send those out is growing by the day—you know, we’re continuing to grow our ability to do that. We know that we could send—the supply line where we’ve got it set up now is capable of supplying about half a million packs if we need to do that, and, obviously, the longer this goes on and the longer we need to keep supplying that material, then we will continue to do that. Media : Dr Bloomfield, I have a question around hospital and aged care facility visits. Will restrictions under level 3 change? Will people be able to visit their dying loved ones now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’re still working on that guidance and working with our hospitals and aged care facilities. We’ve seen in New Zealand, even under the lockdown, a number of clusters inside aged residential care facilities, so in that setting I think we want to be particularly careful. But I am very keen to extend the compassionate—there already exists an opportunity for people to visit loved ones who are dying, under compassionate grounds. That is not the case if the person has COVID-19. You’ll recognise there is that restriction. It’s that latter that we’re particularly looking at, whether there may be any flexibility under alert level 3. Media : What about hospitals for, like, pregnant women? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, those are being reviewed, so we will make announcements further on. Media : Is there enough so that health care workers can have adequate PPE around COVID cases who are vulnerable or have underlying conditions? Is there an argument that family members with the right PPE should be allowed in there as well, and why not get a bit more cracking with that work so that people aren’t left alone without their families? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so the work is cracking along, and that is one option—is to make PPE available for family members in that situation. Media : Just back on schools, what the public health implications of those schools that operate in modern learning environments? You talked about the issue of open spaces. As I understand it, some MLEs also have less favourable ratios of students to bathrooms and wash basins. So what are the unique challenges that are posed by MLEs, and how can the Government, sort of, deal with those? Hon Chris Hipkins : So the Ministry of Education are working with schools over the coming week to deal with all of their individual needs and requirements. My key message, again, is we want to have as few students at school as possible, because even in a modern learning environment, if you can keep the numbers low enough, there are ways to manage that. One of the things the Ministry of Education are working through with schools are things like cleaning, for example—so if you’ve got different groups of students using the same bathrooms, can they be cleaned in between so that you’re keeping that bubble nice and tight. So all of those logistical things are being worked through with schools and early learning services over the coming week. Media : Dr Bloomfield, GPs were expecting a second wave of funding to get them through the second half of the lockdown, but that hasn’t happened. How come? Hon Chris Hipkins : We were just talking about that before, and I’ll let the director-general answer that question. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thanks, Minister. So there have been two payments already to primary care, to GPs: an initial payment of $15 million and then a further payment of $11 million out around the country to help offset the costs of their response to COVID-19. There is an active conversation between the Minister and general practice leaders and the ministry on further funding. So that’s ongoing, and I can’t comment any further on it. Media : When you said that $11 million was promised to them, though, and now is being withheld from them—a lot of them have budgeted and staffed for that $11 million to be in their bank accounts, and now it’s just being taken away from them. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t think it’s been taken away, but the conversation is ongoing and active between those three parties, as I said, about any further funding that is needed to support the COVID-19 response that is happening in primary care. Media : So was the $11 million extra promised to them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t comment on that. I know the conversation’s ongoing. Media : [ Inaudible ] a morale issue, from what I’ve been told, if they’ve been promised the funding, they’re trying to ramp up for the tsunami of patients that they’re expecting after the lockdown, and then they’ve been told that and they just don’t feel valued because they were expecting this money, they’ve spent it in their heads, so— Hon Chris Hipkins : So I think, as the director-general has just said, conversations between general practitioners and the Minister of Health is continuing. So my advice to them would be to continue that discussion, and we’ll be monitoring that closely. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you tell us just a bit more about the treatment for those patients in ICU? Are new drugs being used? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At this stage, no new drugs are being used, but you will have seen the announcement last week by the Health Research Council: at least two of the studies funded by the Health Research Council, and some in partnership with the Ministry of Health, are looking at treatments for, particularly, people who are hospitalised and with severe symptoms. Of course, because of the approach New Zealand has taken here, we’ve had not only a low-ish number of cases but low hospitalisation rates, and so people have been able to be treated, including in ICU, in the most part successfully. So those trials would only go ahead if our case numbers started to increase, and they are linked up to international trials, too. Media : And also, do you think it’s necessary for the Auditor-General to independently review the management of PPE, and what do you think will come out of that review? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, well, I don’t want to pre-empt what the Auditor-General will find, but I’m certainly happy and very pleased that he’s going to do this, that he and his workers are, and I think we’re expecting the results in about four weeks’ time. So I’m very open to scrutiny and review of what we have done and any feedback on how that could be done better. Media : Director-General, do you think that you could’ve done a better job getting that out, because there’s a sentiment there that people feel like they’re not protected. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think this is a topic we’ve covered repeatedly. Look, I think we have stood up a system nationwide to ensure that our stocks we have are distributed around the country, that we have taken on that responsibility to distribute it to a whole range of providers that previously we wouldn’t have, and that we have done that successfully. We have also ensured good supply lines, and I look forward to any recommendations that the Auditor-General has got about how we could continue to improve that. Media : It’s a topic that comes up repeatedly because you keep offering reassurances and we keep hearing from front-line health workers saying they don’t have adequate PPE. You’ve stated that they have plenty of it, that hospitals aren’t recycling gear to reuse it; we know that’s incorrect, so why should Kiwi health workers have confidence in what you’re saying in these press conferences? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, because I can reassure them, and the feedback I get from many workers around the country—and if I ever hear of any issues, I ring the relevant DHB chief executive. I know they are taking a very personal interest in this. There is very good distribution of PPE. If any issues arise, then those are looked into. That doesn’t mean that on any one day, a DHB will be able to distribute all the PPE that a certain provider thinks they need on that day, but that also doesn’t mean there’s a problem in the system. Secondly, on the recycling, what I do understand—and I think you’ve said that that’s incorrect—actually, in the Auckland region, they are retaining used N95 masks because there is very good evidence from overseas that these can be cleaned and reused if necessary, so they are putting them aside, but there is no reuse of those happening. They have new N95 masks every time they need to use them. Media : Is it the DHB managers who are at fault with regards to not allowing staff to wear masks when they want to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I trust DHB managers to do their job in clinical situations, with the best clinical advice, which they do get, from their infectious diseases specialists and their infection prevention and control teams. And it’s not my job to second-guess those individual interactions between clinicians and those who are leading them in their clinical settings. Media : Can you provide any information in regards to reports that a New Zealander died of COVID in Peru, and whether he was meant to be on that mercy flight? Hon Chris Hipkins : My understanding is, yes, a New Zealander has passed away in Peru. I also understand that that family was being actively supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and that they’ve asked for some privacy, and so I can’t really divulge any further details on that. Media : Do you have any numbers on how many students can’t access distance learning yet? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we know, when we started this exercise, our estimate was that around 80,000 households did not have a broadband connection and that that could cover up to 145,000 learners. I’m confident that—as you will have heard the numbers—we’re getting more and more households connected by the day, and, with 80-90,000 hard packs of materials being shipped out and more on the way, that we are getting people connected one way or the other, even if it’s an old-fashioned connection through the courier service, and, of course, through the television networks that we’ve got up and running, where we’re providing support to those households, as well. Media : Are you able to say whether that man was meant to be on one of the mercy flights? Had he been in contact with the consulate there? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, I’m not in a position to be able to divulge those details. I got the information relatively briefly before this press conference, but if we are able to release that information, I’ll make sure that it is released. Media : On those repatriation flights, are there any more planned? Hon Chris Hipkins : Yes, there is further work—I think it’s well known there’s further work with India, for example, around repatriation flights there. I understand that there was a flight from the Philippines. I think it landed yesterday and has now returned. So there are repatriation efforts ongoing. I do want to say that this is the largest consular effort around the world that the New Zealand Government has ever undertaken, so it is a huge effort, and where we can, we’re working very closely to make sure that we can get Kiwis home and get those who are in New Zealand who want to get home also home, but there are a whole lot of constraints around that. Media : Any more details about that India flight in terms of timing? Hon Chris Hipkins : Yes, I do, and I can give that to you. I got some dates before I came down here; I’ll just have to find the right piece of paper that’s got the exact dates on it. In fact, it’s the one on top. So my understanding is that the first flight out of India will depart on 24 April. After that departure, we’re expecting a further flight from New Delhi and a flight from Mumbai, expecting those will be spaced 24 hours to 48 hours apart so that the relevant practical arrangements can be made both on the Indian side and on the New Zealand side. The commercial Philippine Airlines flight that repatriated 167 New Zealanders and permanent residents and 37 third-country nationals with valid visas landed in Auckland yesterday and returned to Manila shortly afterwards carrying 63 Filipino residents. Media : Mr Hipkins, what advice are you getting on the impact, especially on those students sitting NCEA, looking at those big exams this year—impact on them, and what are you looking at in terms of, maybe a bit further down the line, the support that you can give to them so that they’re either not going to fail or have to come back and repeat a year? Hon Chris Hipkins : So I guess my first message to them is: make sure they’re preserving their mental health, make sure they’re preserving their wellbeing in this very difficult time, don’t let themselves get totally strung out about it. NZQA have supplied to schools, and indirectly through schools to learners, guidance on the sorts of things they can do to generate an evidence base for assessment when more regular assessment can start to take place. Guidance has been supplied to schools about the sorts of evidence that they should be looking to gather so that in the event that a student cannot do an exam at the end of the year, that that derived grade process that we would normally rely on can still take place. Media : So there might be a bit of aggregating or— Hon Chris Hipkins : That’s possible. Of course, we’re moving to an online assessment environment with NZQA, and we’re speeding that up now as a result of this so that we can get more online assessment taking place, and NZQA is leaning very heavily into that. But, again, I do want to reiterate that many students will now spread their NCEA levels over several years. So if you’re doing level 1 this year and you don’t quite finish it because of the lockdown, you’ll be able to finish that next year as you start to do your level 2. And schools are working very, very hard to be able to, sort of, slide things around to accommodate that for students. Media : So we had a story this week about year 11 to 13 in particular doing more practical, onsite-based learning. Are they a specific group that you’d have concerns about? I mean, are they disadvantaged or limited more than doing other subjects, for example? Hon Chris Hipkins : There’s some things that they can often do from home—so they can do the theoretical components of their work from home. There may be some limitations—if you’re doing a science subject for example—to some of the practical exercises you might not be able to do from home, but I know that schools are working very hard to slide that around. So I think the bits that can be done remotely are being done remotely so that when the students are back in the classroom, they could pick up some of the more—you know, the things that require them to be there physically. Media : Sorry, just coming back to my original question, what advice have you got on the impact on general educational outcomes, or is it too early? Hon Chris Hipkins : It is too early, but, if you look at the Christchurch earthquake scenario, where schools were closed for quite some time and kids did lose quite a block of learning, that didn’t flow through into lower NCEA pass rates at the end of that year. In fact, if anything, those pass rates were slightly better, on average, than they would normally have been. Media : Minister, will police be given the same powers under the Health Act at level 3 as they do at level 4? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, that’s something that the director-general might be in a better position to answer around the enforcement of level 3. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So what I can say is we are preparing a new section 71 notice under the Health Act that will apply under level 3. And, yes, it will create the same legal basis for police to be able to enforce the expectations on the public around staying at home, not congregating, and not opening certain facilities. So those powers will be similar but tailored specifically for alert level 3. Media : And just another question on behalf of a colleague: should community midwives be compensated for extra hours they are working during the lockdown and the extra PPE that they are buying themselves? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the College of Midwives and our community-based midwives is one of the groups. In fact, we’re working with each group—pharmacists, midwives, other community-based providers—to look at what their extra costs are during this period of time, and there is work under way to ensure that they are funded for any additional costs that they’re incurring. Media : Is it fair for our front-line health workers, including GPs, to be worried about costs at a time where they’re trying to fight COVID? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think the Government’s moved very quickly, and we’ve provided advice right from early on and have been in active discussion with the full range of professional groups about extra costs they are incurring because of this, and you’ve seen the Government make a series of announcements about extra funding going to a wide range of groups to help support them so that they can continue to provide the services New Zealanders need. Media : Do you, by any chance, have the latest numbers on how many people have come through Government-managed quarantine isolation? Hon Chris Hipkins: Yes, I do. Again, I’ll make sure I get the right piece of paper so I give you the latest numbers. As of 10 a.m. this morning, we have 2,038 in managed isolation or quarantine, which is up 165; we have 1,952 in managed isolation, up 168; and we’ve got 86 in quarantine, which is down three—348 arrived on flights yesterday. Media : Sorry, was that both managed isolation—the two numbers? Hon Chris Hipkins: In managed isolation, we’ve got 1,952. Media : Minister, going back to early childhood, if kōhanga reo decide to stay closed during level 3 and continue distance learning, firstly, are they able to make that decision, and, secondly, if so, will they continue to be funded? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, my advice to all early learning services is talk to the Ministry of Education. Our preference is that those services re-open if they can do so consistent with public health advice. That’s our expectation. There are families out there who are relying on those services in order to be able to put food on the table, and we need those young people learning as well. So if they’re in a position to re-open, then they should. If for some reason there are unique circumstances that mean that they cannot re-open consistent with the public health guidance that’s been issued, then I’d expect that they talk to the Ministry of Education. Media : But do they have the capacity to say to the ministry, “We don’t believe that it’s safe to open, so we won’t.”—is that reason enough? Hon Chris Hipkins : I think that they should follow the public health advice, which is what we’re asking all other New Zealanders to follow. Media : [ Inaudible ] I’ve got an education question and a Leader of the House question. Education: what about those university students who can’t return to their halls? Will they be getting funding? And then Leader of the House with regard to if Parliament comes back: will the Epidemic Response Committee become redundant? Hon Chris Hipkins : So in terms of students who are unable to return to where they were studying because they cannot travel—so they’ve returned home, for example—last week, we announced an extension of student support limits so that they’ll continue to be supported during a period of inactivity. So they’ll continue to be able to access their student support, their student allowances, their student loans, and so on, even if they’re not active in their studies, so they’ll still be able to get that financial support. In terms of the epidemic response select committee that was set up whilst Parliament was not sitting, whilst its role might change slightly as we’re in level 3, I envisage—and this is all subject to discussion at the Business Committee—that there will continue to be a role for that committee in scrutinising, for example, legislation that is related to the epidemic response. So whilst question time resumes, and some of that accountability that you’ve seen delivered through the select committee—while that will shift back to the House, actually, the committee, I think, would continue to have an ongoing role. Media : Dr Bloomfield, just in regards to this ongoing debate about Australia being able to have fewer restrictions in terms of people going back to work but having similar health outcomes to New Zealand, Michael Baker said this morning that, basically, New Zealand had to go harder earlier because we had a lower base in terms of our public health infrastructure and testing. How does that reconcile with your comments yesterday that Australia is envious of our public health system? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, just on the latter, two different things, I think: when you’re talking about public health system, our public health services, which comprise, effectively, our public health units, our ESR laboratory and capacity and also our ministry capacity around public health, that’s different from our publicly funded healthcare system. So I was responding yesterday around our publicly funded healthcare system, which I think you were comparing and contrasting with Australia. In terms of the first issue, I just have a different view from Michael on this. I think if you look at our response, which has been led by, first and foremost, the Ministry of Health and the healthcare system and our public health units, it’s done a very good job. That’s why we are in the position we are in. Does it need to be strengthened in many areas? Yes, it does, and in particular, strengthening the national networking of that system. So, yes, that is happening. And, again, also, to go back to the comments that Dr Murphy made at the Epidemic Response Committee last week, in fact, the reality is that Australia’s response, and particularly in some states, is very similar—the actual impact of it is very similar to New Zealand, so I don’t think there’s that big a difference between our two responses. Media : How will Parliament resume? Will all Ministers be required to attend Parliament when it resumes? Hon Chris Hipkins : Certainly, we’ll be endeavouring to get Ministers to Wellington who are involved in the COVID response so that they can answer questions. We won’t have the entire Cabinet at Parliament, and we won’t have all of our backbenchers at Parliament, because we’re endeavouring to do what we’re asking the rest of the country to do, which is to minimise the amount of movement around the country that they need to do. But my understanding is that key roles like the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, and then, obviously, the Ministers who you’ve seen quite a bit of in the last few weeks will all be available to answer questions in the House. We think that’s an important part of the parliamentary process that we are here. Media : And why has the Prime Minister stopped giving these daily briefings? Hon Chris Hipkins : Sorry, what was that? Media : Why is the Prime Minister not here for the daily briefings? Hon Chris Hipkins : I don’t think she’s done every single daily briefing since this started. From time to time, there are other things that she also needs to attend to— Media : Why not today? Hon Chris Hipkins : —so I am here today in her stead. But I’m sure she’ll be back tomorrow. Media : [Inaudible] Why is she not here today? Hon Chris Hipkins : Well, you can ask her that tomorrow, if you like. Media : Just a supp on the parliamentary process: you talked about Parliament only considering urgent COVID-related legislation. There’s been some concern about select committees still carrying out their work on non-COVID legislation, the prisoner voting bill being one example. Is the Government, or is Labour going to talk to its select committee chairs and ask that they reconsider that in light of the approach the Government is taking? Hon Chris Hipkins: Well, look, I think one of the key messages is MPs aren’t just sitting at home doing nothing. Actually, we’re continuing to be paid as well, and we should continue to work from home where we can. And so where select committees can continue to do their work from home, you know, by having remote hearings, for example, hearing submissions from the public, that’s a sensible thing to do. It doesn’t put anybody’s health at risk. People are Zooming all over the country—you know, virtually Zooming all over the country—and there’s no harm in select committees continuing to do that as well. So I think that there’s a judgment exercise here, but I’m certainly not going to say to people—to committees who are keen to continue their work—that they should stop their work. If they’re not even leaving the house and they’re able to do that using, you know, technology, then I think it’s perfectly acceptable for them to do that. Media: With some MPs travelling to Parliament on that week of the 29 th , does that mean that other New Zealanders can jump on a plane and travel round if they feel that they have urgent business as well, or that they would consider business that needed, required, travel? Is that setting an example that you want people— Hon Chris Hipkins: No. There are very clear guidelines around who can or cannot travel during both level 4 and level 3, and members of Parliament fall into the category where if they have to be at Parliament, then they fit within the exemption that exists there. But all New Zealanders are expected to follow that guidance. Media: Do they pose a particular risk, though, because they’ve been spread out over the country and are coming to one place? Does that—obviously, there’ll be distancing and rules, but— Hon Chris Hipkins: Well, most members of Parliament have been at home in their bubbles, same as everybody else. Of course, we will be making sure that we put all of the different protection measures in place around Parliament that we can, including social distancing, physical distancing. And my message to all MPs is I think, you know, only MPs should be coming to Parliament if they really need to be here, so the arrangements of that are all subject to agreement at the Business Committee tomorrow. But certainly, on the Government side, we’ll have a very minimal backbench MP presence during this time. We’re keeping in contact with our backbench using Zoom and everything else. We will have Ministers here who need to answer questions, because that’s actually a very important part of the public accountability process, but we won’t have people here if we don’t think they need to be here. And that would be my message to all of the other parties, as well. Media: Is the expectation that the political parties use their most local MPs, so to speak, so you’re minimising travel? Hon Chris Hipkins: That will be a key focus for us. We do have a number of MPs, for example, who can drive to Wellington rather than have to fly, and so—Ministers who can drive to Wellington rather than fly—and so we’ve been encouraging that where it’s possible. There are some who will need to fly, for example the Minister of Health. I think there is an appetite to see him back at Parliament so that he can be questioned by the Opposition, and he will have to fly in order to be able to get here, but Ministers and MPs shouldn’t be flying if they don’t have to. Media: Dr Bloomfield, have you provided any advice to the Deputy Prime Minister on whether it’s suitable for him to return given his age? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I haven’t. Media: Dr Bloomfield, could I ask you what the ministry’s opinion of testing elderly patients is? Ryman Healthcare requires all elderly patients returning from hospital to return a negative test, but Hutt Valley DHB won’t test the patients then; it’s the ministry’s position. Can you tell us why they’re different? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, we’ve had an ongoing discussion with the aged residential care sector about the necessity and, indeed, wisdom of testing every person being admitted to an aged residential care facility. So yes, the DHB is consistent with the very good advice and policy that is currently the one we are using, and we’ll keep discussing with the aged residential care association both testing and also what other things they can do to protect residents and staff. Media: Is it safe for the Deputy Prime Minister to return to work, to Parliament? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what I’d refer you back to is the—when the Prime Minister was asked about this question when we first went into, I think, level 4 lockdown, the Deputy Prime Minister is considered an essential worker, and so under that category, then, it’s appropriate for him to return to Parliament. Media: He’s also a septuagenarian, though, so is it safe for him? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the measures that are being put in place—and Minister Hipkins has talked about those—both here and in every workplace are designed to protect all New Zealanders. Media : Minister, just on progressing legislation, particularly contentious legislation like prisoner voting, do you think it’s appropriate for it to be progressing, particularly when people have the pandemic on their minds? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, we won’t be progressing it through the House during level 3. That doesn’t mean, as I’ve said, that select committees can’t continue to meet if they can do so consistent with the guidance that’s out there for everybody else, which is to work from home where they can. So if they can continue to work from home, they can hear submissions from home, there is actually no harm in doing that. So it’s perfectly acceptable for them to do that, but we won’t be progressing it in the House. Media : Just on community testing, Dr Bloomfield—sorry if I’ve missed this earlier—do you have a total number of tests that have been carried out at these centres? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry, a number of tests that have been carried out—? Media : At the community testing centres—the targeted community testing. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We do have the numbers of those. I don’t have them with me today. I think I’ve spoken to those over the last few days. It was—I won’t try and do them off the top of my head, but you’ll probably find them in our earlier media releases. Media : So, Minister, just—not to labour the point, but Dr Bloomfield referred to your measures that you would use to keep the Deputy Prime Minister safe. What are those measures? Hon Chris Hipkins : Well, we’ll be putting in place measures to keep everybody safe, as other workplaces around the country are doing. So we’re keeping our presence here at Parliament down to a core group of people who are absolutely essential. That includes parliamentary staff. So Ministers like me, I’ll be in my office by myself, or maybe with one or two others. All my staff will continue to work from home and support me from home rather than coming back. So we’re keeping our numbers here at Parliament as small as we possibly can. We’ll be maintaining social distancing right the way through the parliamentary complex. You will remember from the brief period that we had at level 3 before Parliament shut down that that has implications for the public spaces at Parliament, for example, so we are maintaining distancing on the tiles and those sorts of things to ensure that we’re doing all of that, and in the debating chamber we’re maintaining our distancing. So we are doing what we’re asking every other workplace in the country to do, which is to make sure that you’re being as safe as possible and you’re acting consistent with the public health advice. Media : Are you aware of any people that have caught COVID-19 who have worked in the parliamentary precinct? Hon Chris Hipkins : No, I’m not. Media : It’s been hard enough to convince our free-spirited and iron-willed older New Zealanders to stay put anyway, so shouldn’t the Deputy Prime Minister be leading by example, because other 70-plus people are going to be wanting to leave their houses and perhaps return to work as well, against your advice? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, you’re welcome to ask the Deputy Prime Minister that question, but I certainly—if he wants to come back to Wellington and he’s available to come back to Wellington to answer questions, then I certainly would fully support him in his decision to do so. Media : Minister, in relation to the repatriation flights, are they all coming back to Auckland or will some of them come back to quarantine in Wellington and Christchurch? Hon Chris Hipkins : My understanding is that the flights to date have all landed in Auckland, but I can’t comment on what might happen in the future. Media : The India flights—specifically the India flights, because if they were coming back to Wellington and Christchurch, wouldn’t you need to have set up quarantine facilities here, because all of them are already in Auckland? Is that—am I wrong or—? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, my understanding is that the flights thus far have landed in Auckland. In terms of what may happen in the future around future repatriation flights, of course we will communicate those details to the public as and when we have those details available. Media : But the flights from India are coming soon, so assuming the Government knows where they’re going to put those people? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, like I said, I’m not in a position to release those details now. A lot of that work is still being done. A lot of the logistics of planning those flights, of working out who’s going to be on those flights—a lot of that detailed work is still being done. Media : That person from Peru, are they counted as a New Zealand statistic, a New Zealander, or will they—yeah? Hon Chris Hipkins : I don’t think they’re counted as a New Zealand statistic. I’ll just— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No. No, they wouldn’t be. Hon Chris Hipkins : Last question. Media : Just very quickly, are you aware of Iona Holsted, the Education secretary, signing off an agreement with kōhanga reo and kura kaupapas and wānanga to let them determine themselves whether they will open or not? Hon Chris Hipkins : No, that’s not something that I’ve been briefed on. Media : Can I ask just a final question on midwives. Do you recognise how much more difficult those community midwives—how much more difficult their role has been during the lockdown in terms of doing those face-to-face meetings with mothers, mothers being asked to leave hospital earlier, etc., etc., etc.? Hon Chris Hipkins : Yes, and, look, I acknowledge that level 4 lockdown has been really challenging for a lot of people, and particularly people who are working in those critical health workforces. You know, babies don’t stop coming just because we’re in level 4 lockdown. So I take my hat off to all of those who are working in that field and I thank them for the work and for the extra measures that they’ve put in place to keep themselves and to keep the families who they’re working with safe. Media : And you are promising some Government support for them? Hon Chris Hipkins : Look, I’m not in a position to make announcements on that today. Thanks, everybody. Conclusion of press conference
The daily COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference.
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 22 April --- Section Separator --- PM : Tēnā koutou katoa. Welcome to day 28 of level 4. I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield for his update, and then we’ll run through a few pieces of Government news before we take questions. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. Today, New Zealand’s total number of new cases has increased by six. These are all confirmed cases. Three are associated with overseas travel. These were people who came back, who were repatriated from the Greg Mortimer cruise ship, and the other three are related to existing clusters. The new combined total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is therefore 1,451. Sadly, today I am reporting the death of a woman in her 80s, who was one of the residents of Rosewood Aged Residential Care Facility who had been transferred to Burwood Hospital. The woman had underlying health conditions. As I’ve previously outlined, due to the vulnerabilities of people in this group, some have not been tested for COVID-19 and instead have been managed as probable cases, and the woman who has just passed was one of those cases. Every person we lose to COVID-19 is a tragedy and with family and friends left without their loved one, and my thoughts and those of others, I’m sure, are with this woman’s family today and in coming days. There are now 1,036 people who have reported as recovered from COVID-19. Today, in hospital we have 11 people. Two of these are in intensive care; one in Middlemore and one in Dunedin Hospital. They are both reported as being in a stable condition. We still have the 16 significant clusters, and five more COVID-19 cases have been linked to clusters. Some of those were cases that were under investigation and have now been associated with clusters. I am pleased to report our labs yesterday processed a record number of tests for a single day. That was 5,289 tests. It brings the total number to 94,797, and we have in stock today testing for over 87,000 tests. Around hospital visits—and there’s a lot of interest in this, which I can understand, particularly as we move from alert level 4 to alert level 3—clearly, the restrictions on visiting people in hospital do create hardships for both family and those in hospitals. We are working on the visitor policy and how it will look under alert level 3. And, just to acknowledge, while this may seem a relatively simple thing on the face of it, along with all the work we’re doing with district health boards, it’s how we do as much care and deliver as much care as possible to people under alert level 3 while keeping patients, staff, and visitors safe. So that work is ongoing, and I will update you on it as soon as it is finished. There is wider testing across a range of communities today, with a particular focus on ensuring we reach Māori and Pacific communities. In Northland, there is increasing testing in conjunction with Māori health providers, and they will be providing mobile testing facilities going out into smaller communities. This provides those with an opportunity to be tested—those who are there as well as general health and wellbeing checks and flu vaccinations. So clinics will be available this week in the Far North, Kaitāia, Hokianga, Kaikohe, Kawakawa, Moerewa, Kaipara, and Kaeō. There’s also a drive-through clinic in both Kerikeri and Whangarei. Taranaki DHB is continuing community testing of people with symptoms and encouraging anyone with symptoms to get tested. They’re working with their Māori health provider network to help set up and deliver a range of outreach options, to take testing closer to home, and, in conjunction with Ngāruahine, Ngāti Ruanui, and Tui Ora Māori health providers, there will be community-based outreach clinics in both North and South Taranaki. And this week around the country there will be testing of selected groups, including health workers and essential workers, as part of our community-based testing—just, again, as part of our surveillance to ensure that we are not missing any undetected cases of COVID-19 out there. Just finally on testing, the CBACs, or community-based assessment centres, are for people who are symptomatic, either referred by Healthline or a general practitioner or if someone does have symptoms. They’re not there to test people who are asymptomatic, and you do not need a test if you’re asymptomatic before going back to work next week. And, finally, just a sort of a more prosaic matter, I’ve extended the existing section 70 notices before they expire at midnight tonight. These are available on our website. There is one change I’d like to talk about which will assist businesses. The existing section 70(1)(m) order required non-essential workplaces to be closed. As indicated by the Prime Minister, businesses will be able to work ahead of our move to alert level 3 carefully over coming days to prepare their workplaces, and the amended order allows for this. And, finally, if you need healthcare for any reason, ring Healthline or visit or ring your GP. Do not put off seeking healthcare, and do not wait to moving to alert level 3. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. I just want to pick up on Dr Bloomfield’s reference to the fact that there were three cases today amongst our confirmed cases who were connected to overseas travel. This is just an opportunity for me to highlight, again, that, regardless of moving to alert level 3, New Zealanders who are returning home will continue to be quarantined and isolated in Government facilities at alert level 3. That will continue on. We have given no endpoint to that part of our response to COVID. It is an intrinsic part of our response, and it is not changing because we are moving alert levels. Let me give you an update on numbers: we currently have 2,403 people in Government-provided facilities—essentially hotels. The number in quarantine—so those who we are testing or who have symptoms—is 97, with the remainder being in isolation, but, again, in those hotels. I wanted to make that clear in case there was any confusion amongst the public over whether that will change; it will not. In terms of Government news more broadly, you will have heard and seen that we are preparing—as Dr Bloomfield pointed out—to transition New Zealand to alert level 3 next week. Level 3 information has been shared, and many of you have been here for that process, and it’s continuing to be updated and communicated, as there were some smaller pieces of work that we needed further advice on. Schools and businesses are preparing, as we speak, for that move from next Tuesday as well. Safety, of course, remains paramount, and I know that’s top of mind for employers and workplaces as they make the necessary preparations to have their teams who cannot work from home re-enter the workforce. On the larger end of this scale, New Zealand’s largest infrastructure project—the Auckland City Rail Link—will be back to work post-lockdown to help support jobs in the construction sector: 200 workers will resume construction works on Tuesday at CRL sites at Britomart, Lower Queen Street, Albert Street, Aotea, Karangahape Road, Mount Eden, and on the Southern Line at Ōtāhuhu, and this will ramp up to pre-pandemic workforce, which was 400, over the week that then follows. We’ve worked really hard to cushion the blow from COVID-19 with initiatives like the wage subsidy and advanced payments to transport contractors, but getting transport infrastructure projects back underway safely is part of our transition out of level 4. Of course, measures appropriate for level 3 are being put in place, including restricting access to site, having workers maintain physical distancing, and providing protective clothing where that is necessary. Waka Kotahi NZ Transport Agency projects and non-essential State highway maintenance will also be able to resume under level 3 as well, but with strict health and safety protocols. NZTA is working with contractors on specific COVID-19 plans for each project to keep workers and the public safe. In the meantime, as you’ll hear me continually repeat, New Zealand is still at alert level 4. And, while I know there will be things we’re all looking forward to under alert level 3, we must not risk the gains that we have made or that many New Zealanders have made sacrifices for over the last four weeks. Police have told me that while 99.9 percent of us are respecting the measures put in place, there are still some who are choosing to flout the rules, and I have the numbers on that for you. As at 6 p.m. yesterday, there had been 4,128 breaches of the CDM and Health Acts, 433 prosecutions, 3,580 official warnings, 115 youth referrals. More than 5,600 reassurance patrols at essential businesses and crime prevention patrols in neighbourhoods and business districts have been carried out in just the past two days. Each and every one of these people involved in breaches risks undoing the work of others. So, again, I say please do not travel unnecessarily or gather. Police will be conducting checkpoints and they will be enforcing the rules, and they do that to keep all of us safe. Finally, you may recall that on Monday I mentioned that some workplaces, as they prepare for the return into workplaces that they need to return to, will be using these next few days to prepare. That includes premises being cleaned in preparation as well. So today my thanks and appreciation goes to our cleaners, and not before time. I’ve had many letters during our lockdown outlining their essential work during alert level 4, such as from another essential business, a meat processor, crediting their cleaners as a core part of their success in continuing to move products around the country for New Zealanders; from our courts, who say their cleaning staff are the first line of defence in keeping our courts safe, often working extra shifts at all times of the day and night; and even Rose, a cleaner at Ōtāhuhu police station who currently works 13 hour days. These are our essential workers, and I hope we continue to recognise them as that long after this pandemic has passed. Thank you for keeping us safe. Now, ready for your questions. Media : Prime Minister, we heard this morning at the COVID committee, from representatives right across the health sector, there’s widespread concern about financial viability. Do you need to urgently financially help the likes of GPs, pharmacies, and dentists? PM : What I’d point out for the likes of pharmacies, the likes of GPs, support has been provided to them. In fact, $45 million to date has gone into general practice to support them during the COVID response. That’s for everything from supporting the virtual consults that they’ve been doing, for additional cost as a part of testing, and also they have been eligible for the wage subsidy. So we have recognised the cost they’ve faced, and we have worked hard to try and support them as well. Media : The flu vaccine roll-out was also described as a debacle by the New Zealand Medical Association. If the flu vaccine roll-out was so poorly orchestrated, how can we ensure the same doesn’t— PM : I disagree with them on that. Media : How can we ensure that the same doesn’t happen with the roll-out of COVID-19 vaccines, should one be developed? PM : Well, firstly, I would disagree with that premise. The flu vaccine, and flu vaccinations, started earlier than we usually would, for good reason—we wanted to be prepared. And we have more flu vaccine than we would usually offer as well. So I disagree with their assessment of the flu vaccine. We know, and we want to protect New Zealanders, and that’s why we moved early in order to do that. And it’s not finished, we should add. That will be a rolling campaign. Media : How can you disagree with that though, Prime Minister, when thousands of people have been turned away from receiving a flu vaccine? PM : Again, the point that I’m making here is that the flu vaccination programme started earlier than it usually would. And we prioritised—[ Interruption ]—if I could finish. And we prioritised those who are at the greatest risk: older New Zealanders, pregnant New Zealanders, and groups that usually would be just waiting with every other New Zealander to be vaccinated. And so we moved early, we got more vaccine, and we continue with the flu vaccination programme as we continue to have more vaccine coming into the country. You’ll recognise that in a pandemic more people are coming forward all at once when we started that programme early. Media : Prime Minister, the Medical Association—and this is also for Dr Bloomfield—they’re asking that the Ministry of Health be in charge of distributing a COVID-19 vaccine, rather than a distribution company, to avoid any issues like have been seen with the flu vaccine. Is that something that’s being considered? PM : Go ahead. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So just to pick up on the flu vaccine again, the flu vaccine is unique in New Zealand in that it is available both through publicly funded people who are eligible and also through the private sector. And it has been so for a long time. This year, PHARMAC have moved to secure an extra 400,000 doses of flu vaccine before COVID-19 was even known about. We then moved to advance the flu vaccination programme so that we could make sure that our most vulnerable New Zealanders could be vaccinate first. And, in fact, over 50 percent of over-65s have already been vaccinated, even under a lockdown situation, so I think that’s fantastic progress. We also, as a ministry, essentially, stepped in on the usual distribution of that vaccine to be able to take national control of it, because in normal circumstances it’s just distributed out to whoever has put an order in, and we wanted to make sure that the distribution was managed from the centre so that it would go out equally across the country. Yes, there has been restrictions on the order size that practices can put in, to 60 vaccines at a time, but they can put in more than one order. And that is so we could make sure that it could be right across the country, rather than sitting in one part of the country. We will—you can rest assured that we are already working actively on not just what we might do to distribute a COVID-19 vaccine, but to make sure that New Zealand has access to it is right across the research and ordering and purchasing and regulatory aspects of any vaccine, once it’s available. Media : Will you be stepping in ahead of time, with regards to that vaccine, given that that is what you had to do given the lack of distribution with the flu vaccine? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the distribution was there, but, because of the extraordinary circumstances, we did step in to really put a control over that—recalling that a lot of that vaccine had been pre-ordered by private providers. We‘ve actually stepped in to stop that, or to delay that, until further down the track, so that our most vulnerable people could be vaccinated. Yes, what I can confirm is we will be managing all aspects of COVID-19 vaccine from the centre. Media : Sir David Skegg just told the committee that if we had reached the gold standard of contact tracing, we’d come out of level 4 now. Is the failure for us to meet that standard earlier—is that causing unnecessary economic hardship? PM : No. No, that was not the basis of the decision. Equally, whilst David Skegg has made that statement, you’ll have seen others—like Shaun Hendy—encourage New Zealand to stay in for two weeks longer, in order to lock in the benefits of being at level 4. So as we’ve said, and as we said on Monday, this was about striking that balance between making sure that we banked those gains, that we were less likely to return to level 4; but, equally, that we could start transitioning our economy towards getting more people into the workplace. We expect an extra 400,000 people will be doing that next week. Media : Those people who have commented at committee today, they’re representatives of front-line workers. So by disagreeing with their statements, are you saying that their concerns aren’t valid? PM : No, not at all. You characterised the roll-out of the flu vaccine in a way that I simply disagreed with. That is not in any way— Media : I didn’t characterise it that way; the New Zealand Medical Association did. PM : You gave a quote that I disagreed with. That does not mean that I in any way trivialise or dismiss the views of our health workforce. In fact, much of what we have done has been informed by what we’ve seen, heard, and know of what’s happening on the ground. It’s been an incredibly important part of our COVID response, and I continually get feedback—both about where we need to do more, go further, but also what people are pleased we’ve done as well. Media : Are you considering requiring aircrew to isolate? It’s still considered a weakness in our border control, and there has been speculation about aircrew being linked to that Bluff wedding cluster. PM : Yep, yep. And I’ll let Dr Bloomfield speak to that specific example around the index case in the Bluff wedding. But, more generally, when it comes to aircrew, of course, you can imagine how difficult it would be to implement a regime where, every time someone went and fulfilled a shift at work, they then had to stay home for two weeks. But what we do need to make sure is that we have protocols in place that protect that workforce and the people around them. What I want to do, as we get to a position of continuing to see smaller and smaller numbers coming in, and as we see those flight numbers drop, just reassess again that all of the protocols we’ve got around, alongside health, around our aircrew are appropriate. But, to date, they have had exemptions because of the expectations of protections in place for them while they are working. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So just a quick additional comment: I had a quite detailed memo last night from my border team, who are working very closely with Air New Zealand, their chief medical officer, because they are reviewing all those protocols, and what has been happening with their crew—in particular, the three international destinations they’re still flying to, which is the western seaboard of the US, Shanghai, and Hong Kong. And there are different arrangements at each, and they’re doing a risk assessment to look at what else they can do to help protect their crew and, of course, to make sure that there’s no breach in the border when those people come back into New Zealand. So there’ll be updated advice and, you know, even increased scrutiny of the procedures in place to help make sure we are not importing any cases through that avenue. Media : Is it acceptable that hospital staff are telling us they’re being bullied or threatened with dismissal if they speak out about lack of PPE or other COVID issues? PM : No; that is absolutely not acceptable. In fact, you, I hope, will have heard that any time there’s been an issue raised about PPE, we’ve really worked hard to investigate the particular circumstances around that. That has tended to often be in front-line community health care, because those are areas where we’ve relied on—or DHBs have a role in distributing to those front-line workers—and we’ve been wanting to ensure that that has been happening and meeting our expectations. So we rely on that feedback, and I would certainly be very upset to hear that anyone didn’t feel they could speak openly about those issues. Media : And, to follow up on that, health workers from across the sector—including pharmacists, doctors, and disability workers—have reiterated their concerns about PPE access. Are you comfortable that everything is working really well; and, if not, what are you going to do about it? PM : Again, and that’s where I would simply ask: please provide those examples. As we’ve said, we do want those front-line community health workers to have access to appropriate PPE, and it’s a matter for us of knowing where that hasn’t happened. As soon as we know that, then we reach out to ensure that that distribution happens. But, again, just general statements make it a little bit difficult for us to unlock what’s happened in those circumstances. But we do not have an issue with the stock of PPE. We continue to try and meet any needs that we’re hearing on the ground, and that’s why we rely on those examples being raised. Media : Prime Minister— PM : Yeah, sorry Jenna, I’ll let you finish your sentence. Media : There have been specific examples, though— PM : Yep. Media —the likes of Middlemore Hospital, the likes of— PM : Yep, and every time they’re raised we follow up. I remember last week you raised with us the issue of one of the aged care facilities, Minister Clark contacted the DHB chair after that to work through what had happened on the ground. As soon as those are raised, we do follow up, and so please keep giving us those examples; that’s the only way we can flush them out. Media : [ Inaudible ] being threatened with dismissal. PM : And I’m again saying— Media : They’re too scared to speak up. PM : —that is completely unacceptable. And, if I were to find where that was happening—there will be follow-up on that. That is not OK. We have a health system where people should feel free to speak freely about concerns they have. That is how we meet the needs of our front-line workers, and it is just not acceptable, ever, to threaten their employment over that. Media : Are you concerned about— PM : Sorry, Ben, I did promise you the next question. Forgive me. Media : That’s alright. It’s not related to COVID, but Canada has suffered its worst modern-day shooting on the weekend, and it’s obviously a fate that’s befallen this nation during your term as well. Can I ask if you’ve reached out to your friend Justin Trudeau and spoken to him, or, if you haven’t, what you would say or what you have said? PM : Yeah, and I know that would’ve been the thoughts of many New Zealanders that that is one of the worst mass shootings that they’ve experienced. And so, yes, I did. I sent a message on behalf of New Zealanders to Prime Minister Trudeau just to pass on our condolences and just to ask if there was anything that we could do as a nation, that we would because we know how important those offers are. They were made to us when we had a horrific experience here. Media : Prime Minister, in regards to there being 35 Air New Zealand flight attendants who have tested positive for COVID, I gather there’s some exemption there around flight attendants in terms of the quarantine. Is there going to be any changes to that given the number that have tested positive? PM : Yeah, again, I’ll let Dr Bloomfield come back to this again, but what I’ll just highlight is there is obviously no exemption for anyone who is symptomatic or who tests positively. You are absolutely obliged to isolate if you are positive for COVID-19 or if you are symptomatic. So any suggestion that someone who is ill or unwell is treated any differently, that is certainly not the case. When it comes to broader quarantine requirements for people who have gone overseas, I’ll let Dr Bloomfield just reiterate the comments he made earlier. Dr Ashley Bloomfield Yes, so the circumstances of the 35 Air New Zealand staff are different, and, of course, many of those date from pre the lockdown period. But just to reiterate, we are reviewing and looking very closely at the more recent cases and what the current risk is for those staff, particularly when they are on their downtime in one of those three destinations that Air New Zealand is flying to and what the arrangements are there on the ground and what else could be done to ensure that they are kept safe there and also that there is appropriate protection for them and for passengers during the flights and then what needs to happen when they do come onshore. PM : I imagine you can think of the—the difficulty, of course, is that this is these individual stewards’ line of work—that if that every time they work a shift they’re required to then isolate, that becomes very difficult, both for the airline and for them. So you may then question why aren’t they then required that, whenever they’re not working, to be only able to be at home. Again, there are issues attached with that as well. That means that for many, many months we could have stewards who wouldn’t be able to ever leave their home. So there are issues that we have to work through here, but we’re very, very aware of the fact that, generally, the border is a vulnerability that we have to make sure we have really watertight arrangements around but that we’re also looking after the wellbeing of those workers—and pilots, I should add, as well. Media : We’ve seen calls from the US, Australia, and Britain for an international inquiry into the origins of the outbreak in Wuhan. What’s New Zealand’s position on that? PM : Yeah, I’ve actually seen those reports, and I’m not sure that I would call them necessarily anything as formal as an inquiry. I think, when asked, there have been politicians around the world who have said, “Look, in the aftermath of this, we do need to look at what happened and whether or not there are areas where we could as a global community improve our response.”, and I think that’s common sense. Of course we want to make sure we learn from what has been a global pandemic that has shaken the globe in a way that none other has for many decades. We need to learn from it, and I think of course New Zealand would be very, very open to making sure that if there is something like this in the future, we have the best response as a globe that we possibly could. Media : Would the Government consider putting a cap on how much Uber Eats could charge its restaurants? It’s around 30 to 35 percent at the moment. PM : Yeah, which, as I understand, has of course been Uber’s business model before and continues to be their model. What I would just encourage consumers—all New Zealanders who may be looking forward next week to accessing takeaway food—is just to look at your favourite local eatery, and I do encourage you to support local businesses, and just see whether or not they offer delivery directly themselves—that will often be, then, at a lesser cost to them as a business—and just see whether or not they’ve got contactless options as well, and that’s probably the best way that we can see those businesses not incurring the costs of being, perhaps, under a surcharge that is quite hefty. Media : Prime Minister, just on WorkSafe, given they’re the regulator of workplace safety, what role is WorkSafe going to be playing in terms of moving to level 3 in businesses? Are they going to be the sort of regulator of that activity, or does it still fall to the health sector? PM : Yeah, you will recall there is a role there to play, and, in fact, the labour inspectorate’s been playing a considerable role all the way through our COVID response—making sure, in particular, that employees are having their legal requirements met. Going forward, MBIE has been working through a framework that enables, really, a form of self-accreditation—just businesses to access the information they need to be able to provide a plan within their own work site to keep their workforce safe. Then it’ll be a matter of us then checking in on those work sites. As you can imagine, there will be a large number opening—400,000 going back to work—and so it won’t be possible to be present everywhere. This is a high-trust model. Media : In terms of the second wave, what’s being done to protect the smaller communities where there’s not access to healthcare and testing to ensure the outbreak doesn’t come from there? PM : Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Ah, so perhaps it’s worth referring back to the comments I made about testing in my opening remarks—that, actually, in particular, in some of those remote communities in Tai Rāwhiti, Taranaki, Northland, for example, there are very deliberate efforts being put in place this week to get mobile testing out to those remote communities, working with local iwi and Māori providers, and this is something that I know all the district health boards are doing around the country at the moment. So, yes, we do want to get out into the more remote parts of their areas, just to make sure there are no undetected cases out there. Media : In the Epidemic Response Committee, some Opposition MPs—Gerry Brownlee, David Seymour, and Simon Bridges among them—have raised concerns about predominantly iwi-led checkpoints. They say people are being intimidated; they’re calling them illegal checkpoints. However, iwi say that this is all about looking after communities, looking after their people, particularly kaumātua. Where do you sit on this—are you OK with those checkpoints? PM : Yeah, I was actually talking with the police leadership just this morning around some of those checkpoints, and the feedback I’ve had is that they’ve been working really closely on the ground to make sure that where communities have established their own response, that they’ve been keeping themselves safe, they’ve been keeping others safe, and they’ve been operating within the law. And so, for me, that’s actually been the important thing—that police have been aware, they’ve been working with those communities. They know that the intention here is just to look after one another, and so long as it’s being done in a way that is not inhibiting what should be free movement and that people are being kept safe, then we can work with some of those responses in our community. Media : So you’re OK with them—you are OK with them. PM : I’ve haven’t had—no one would tolerate reports of bullying or abuse, but I haven’t had them brought to me. In fact, I know the intent has been to look after communities, so as long as there’s really just not overstepping the mark there, there is a way to find a way through. Media : Just a follow-up on that earlier question about regional testing: to Dr Bloomfield, two mystery cases come from the West Coast. Has there been community testing over there; and, if not, why not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Ah, I’m not quite sure what the two mystery cases are. Are they recent cases? I haven’t had any cases there— Media : It’s on behalf of a colleague, and the DHB there said that we had to ask you rather than go through the DHB. PM : I’m not familiar with any in recent times. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No—no cases from West Coast. We did have there—actually, you’ll recall the first death we had was on the West Coast, and it’s still not entirely clear where that case came from. But there have been no cases on the West Coast for some weeks now. Media : Is there any community testing on the West Coast? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t know exactly, but every DHB—actually, we sent a message out to them all yesterday to talk about the testing for this week, and that includes some community testing but focused on groups—for example, healthcare workers and other essential workers, because those are the people who might have been exposed to people coming into their settings. So that’s where the focus will be. We’re expecting plans back from every DHB today, and so we will have a look and I’ll be able to confirm. You may well see community testing. PM : We’ll come back to you on some of that—in fact, we can give you a bit of an outline of some of that community testing that’s going on. Media : [ Inaudible ] clarity on the hunting rules under level 3? PM : I expect there’ll be an announcement on that tomorrow. One of the things that will be happening later on today is that Minister Sage will be talking directly to Fish & Game, because many of you may be familiar with the fact that for duck shooting, that’s something that is gazetted and has already been gazetted. So she’ll be talking to them around what it is we can do to make sure that as many people as possible can participate in the season at the appropriate time. So that’s something that’s happening this evening; I expect announcements tomorrow. Media : Prime Minister, given the impact on small businesses, medium-sized businesses, and workers of the extension of the lockdown, is it acceptable that the small-business Minister and employment Minister fronted the committee yesterday and didn’t have any analysis, data, numbers—anything—in terms of what Cabinet had actually considered the impact would be on them of extending the lockdown? PM : Well, of course, we had a range of scenarios that were already provided by Treasury around the extension of lockdown, or long periods at level 4, in particular, and at level 3. You can understand how it would be quite difficult to get into granular analysis around some of the size of those SMEs who are within the small group who continue to be unable to operate at full strength, so there’s a number of variables that would make that hard. What we do know, though, is that from the wage subsidy that we’ve put out, almost three-quarters of that wage subsidy has gone to SMEs. So we were very aware when we came in to designing the packages that SMEs were going to be some of the most affected groups by New Zealand’s response generally. That’s why the wage subsidy was designed to meet their needs. It was why, of course—and, helpfully, there’s been a deferral of ACC invoicing because of some of those costs SMEs will be facing, the loan underwrite scheme, and, of course, the work we did on commercial leases has all been with SMEs in mind, because New Zealand is predominantly a country of small and medium sized enterprises. So it’s driven much of our decision making. Media : And just a supp on that: in terms of both Deborah Russell and Willie Jackson’s comments, respectfully, do you agree with them? In the case of Deborah Russell, she talked about the fact that small businesses should be able to survive something like what has happened economically with this lockdown, and Willie Jackson saying that nobody will have any great loss in terms of the lockdown, and that it’s fine and everyone will be fine for another week. PM : I disagree with those comments, and the Minister of Finance did—as he appeared at the time—as well. Media : What level would the COVID alert level have to be at for the election to go on as planned? Could it occur under a level 2 or even level 3? PM : So the Electoral Commission has been doing some contingency planning just for a COVID environment in New Zealand more generally. I think—without, again, giving an official ruling on this—I think you can see that at alert level 2, it is a more permissive environment. It is a level where you can have slightly more congregation in the public than you can at the other alert levels. What I would point out is that we have some time to run. It won’t be until June until we’re in a position where the electoral finance regulations—that period starts kicking in, and so we do have time to assess that we’ll be at the right alert level in order for an election to be held. Media : Prime Minister, the principal of Morrinsville College—your— PM : Mr Inger. Media : —yeah—has accused the Government of wanting to pass child-minding responsibilities on to his sector, rather than kind of having people deal with them. What did you make of those comments when you saw them? PM : I can’t but help but wonder if Mr Inger is reflecting that I would have been one of those children returning to school, with my father being a police officer and my mother working at the school. So perhaps he had me in mind when he was making that judgment call. Obviously, I disagree. Media : Dr Bloomfield, he directly also caught up with the ministry’s comments. He said the Marist cluster experience showed that, actually, kids could infect adults. What did you make of that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So it wasn’t a child that introduced the infection into the school in the first place. And, yes, there’s no doubt that children can infect adults, but it seems to be very uncommon is the evidence from around the world. And, of course, I guess the first principle here is the work we have put in as a country over the last four weeks has put us in a position where not only have we got a very small number of cases but we are increasingly confident that there is not undetected COVID-19 out in our community. That is the most important protection for not just children, teachers, and their families but for all New Zealanders. PM : The other thing I think, more generally—just to keep in mind the education more generally—in fact, we are preparing as a nation to transition, and so at level 3 we have 400,000 workers going back into the workplace and we have some children and young people who may be re-entering schools. And, actually, regardless of the differing impacts that COVID-19 may or may not have on different communities, we need a plan for the health, wellbeing, and safety of all of those Kiwis, whether they’re children in schools, teachers in schools, or transport workers. We need to be able to do that safely for all of them, and that’s been top of our mind for all of our planning. Media : Midwives are still asking for additional funding along the lines of what’s been given to pharmacies, just to help with the added costs of working in the time of COVID. We understand there are some discussions ongoing. What’s holding them up, and how are those discussions going? PM : Yeah, and all we’ve needed to do is make sure, of course, that for the COVID-related response that we are meeting COVID-related costs, and so sometimes that takes a little bit to work through, but I’ll leave that to our health Minister. Media : But will there be extra money, though? PM : Again, I’m leaving that to the health Minister. He’s having to work across the health sector to identify where there have been COVID-specific related costs. I know it’s been difficult for our midwives, and they’ve been scaling up some of their response to some of the vulnerable families that they work with, where often their work goes well beyond just midwifery. So I recognise that, but that’s something that our health Minister is working through. Media : Dr Bloomfield, we’re now experiencing a very low number— PM : OK. Media :  Yeah. Now I’ve lost my question. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Very low numbers? Media : We’re now experiencing a very low number of new cases every day. When do you anticipate that that number will drop right down to zero or one? Is there any modelling that’s been done particularly with level 3 in mind? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, what we have got down to is not just a small number but knowing where those cases are coming from, and the second point is probably the more important. So our aim is, of course, to stop any ongoing infection from existing cases and in existing clusters, but recalling that some of those cases—most of the cases we’re now confirming as cases actually were infected a week or more ago and some of them actually before we entered the lockdown period, in the case of a few of the more recent confirmed cases. I think the critical thing here is this is the situation we wanted to be in and the situation we want to stay in, where we identify quickly where any cases are emerging and we’re able to get in there really quickly and do the contact tracing and isolation. Media : Do you have an update on the recent number of cases where the source of the infection is unknown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry, could you just repeat— Media : Do you have an update on the recent number of cases where the source of the infection is unknown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’re down to two, essentially, since the start of April, and we’re continuing to investigate those. They’re not recent onset ones, but they’re two where we just haven’t been able to pinpoint exactly where the infection may have come from. PM : And those are areas where quite a bit of testing is going around the periphery of those individuals. Media : The Aged Care Association is wanting to test all new incoming residents and also those on the front line, given their vulnerability in the aged care sector, and they’re also saying that those three inquiries that are under way will put pressure on their services and increase risk of infection. Could you just respond to those two, please? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sure. In the case of the first point, actually aged residential care workers is one of the groups identified in our message to DHBs yesterday, that they should do some surveillance testing on, just to check, because that is a group that could be at a higher risk. On the issue of what happens to residents going into or going back into aged residential care facilities, just to be clear: anyone with symptoms is tested; anyone who is positive does not go into the facility until they are cleared. Even if they are tested and are negative and all other admissions are isolated for 14 days and treated as if they were COVID-19 positive. So there’s a really—and we agree on this—there’s a very clear process which we agree on to help prevent any further infection from residents coming into any of our aged residential care facilities. We are absolutely focused on that. On the second point, I think you mentioned three inquiries, and I’m aware of the Ombudsman’s inquiry and I’ve also asked my team to do a review; I’m not aware of a third. And certainly in the case of our one, when I first mooted the idea I floated that with the Aged Care Association to look for their support in us doing that, and we’re going to be very careful in going about that that it doesn’t add extra burden to those facilities where our teams go in, and we will aim to do as much of it as possible remotely. Media : Prime Minister, do you think that the National Party and Simon Bridges are guilty of politicising the COVID crisis? PM : You’ll forgive me for being utterly focused on the Government’s response to COVID-19, and that means that I have paid no attention to any, therefore, of the commentary that may have been coming from within the National Party itself. Media : Have you noticed this kind of increased vitriol on social media? We’ve seen one post today that’s, actually, there are death threats against you. And I know that you’ve said that’s an unfortunate reality of your role, but is there a responsibility on Facebook, perhaps, to immediately take down those types of threats, and are you also concerned about that kind of increased level of vitriol? PM : Well, to be honest, as I’ve said, that’s something that does come with the job. And I have not allowed myself to be distracted by anything through this period, including statements made on social media. Media : Prime Minister, the Medical Association says there’s about $22 million of funding they were expecting for GPs that’s being held up at Cabinet. Is there a delay? When can they expect that money? PM : No, I don’t consider there’s been a delay. There has already been support, and that support has totalled $45 million, and that doesn’t include the access GPs had to the wage subsidy as well. We’ve worked very hard to recognise the costs that front-line practices have incurred through COVID-19 but, at the same time, also recognise they will have had a drop in revenue, and many businesses have experienced that too. Media : Just in terms of the breaches, prosecutions, and things—those others that you mentioned earlier—you mentioned youth referrals. Do you have any idea of what the sort of breakdown is? Like, are youth a large chunk of the ones that are kind of behaving badly, or is it older people? PM : No, I certainly don’t believe so, of course, because that number hasn’t grown to a huge degree, and so I haven’t got a breakdown of the number from within the 115 further than the fact that that’s just been the total number of youth referrals. Media : So it’s more the older age group—it’s more adults who are behaving badly? PM : Yeah, I would say, based on that figure, because in total we’ve had 4,128 breaches and, of those, 115 youth referrals. Keeping in mind that within those breaches, that includes warnings as well. Media : Back on that $22 million for GPs, who gave them the impression that they were getting that second payment? How did they get that impression? PM : Again, I’m simply giving you the decisions that have been made by Cabinet and by Ministers. Media : Did the ministry give them false hope? PM : Again, I don’t think $45 million is false hope; I think it’s support and much-needed support. Media : But they were told they were getting a second payment of $22 million. PM : And, again, I can’t get into any conversations beyond those had by Cabinet and decisions made by Cabinet. But I do not think $45 million is an insignificant sum when we think about the support we’re trying to provide across all of New Zealand, including businesses across all of New Zealand. Media : Prime Minister, just with the return of Parliament next week, are you expecting all key Ministers involved in the COVID response to return here to Wellington, and have you had any discussions with the Deputy Prime Minister about whether he’ll be travelling, given his age? PM : I have had some conversations with Ministers around what we’ll be doing at alert level 3, and you’ll remember that small time period we had before we scaled up the response we were conducting Cabinet meetings partially in person and partially with some at distance so we could maintain social distancing. So I do expect we will have a few more Ministers who will be available here. That will include the health Minister—he will be basing himself out of Wellington for alert level 3. And I’m expecting that the Deputy Prime Minister is likely to do the same also. Media : Just an update, Dr Bloomfield, on the number of different people throughout the entire coronavirus [ Inaudible ] that have been hospitalised. I think a few days ago it was 69 different people had been hospitalised at any one point. PM : 79. Media : 79 now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : 79 is the total, so it’s actually a really low proportion compared with what a number of other countries have found where their outbreaks have got out of control. And I think, just to reflect on—one of the things that seems clear is that our testing, because it has been at high rates, we have identified all our COVID-19 cases out there. If you look at countries with higher hospitalisation and death rates, it’s very clear that their total number of cases is actually less than what is almost certainly out there. So our hospitalisation rate around sort of 5 percent, instead of the 15 percent that was the original figure that came out of Wuhan, and our mortality rate at around 1 percent is lower than other countries are seeing. PM : And a median age of hospitalisation of 59. OK, all right then, thank you everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Tēnā koutou katoa. Welcome to day 28 of level 4. I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield for his update, and then we’ll run through a few pieces of Government news before we take questions. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. Today, New Zealand’s total number of new cases has increased by six. These are all confirmed cases. Three are associated with overseas travel. These were people who came back, who were repatriated from the Greg Mortimer cruise ship, and the other three are related to existing clusters. The new combined total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is therefore 1,451. Sadly, today I am reporting the death of a woman in her 80s, who was one of the residents of Rosewood Aged Residential Care Facility who had been transferred to Burwood Hospital. The woman had underlying health conditions. As I’ve previously outlined, due to the vulnerabilities of people in this group, some have not been tested for COVID-19 and instead have been managed as probable cases, and the woman who has just passed was one of those cases. Every person we lose to COVID-19 is a tragedy and with family and friends left without their loved one, and my thoughts and those of others, I’m sure, are with this woman’s family today and in coming days. There are now 1,036 people who have reported as recovered from COVID-19. Today, in hospital we have 11 people. Two of these are in intensive care; one in Middlemore and one in Dunedin Hospital. They are both reported as being in a stable condition. We still have the 16 significant clusters, and five more COVID-19 cases have been linked to clusters. Some of those were cases that were under investigation and have now been associated with clusters. I am pleased to report our labs yesterday processed a record number of tests for a single day. That was 5,289 tests. It brings the total number to 94,797, and we have in stock today testing for over 87,000 tests. Around hospital visits—and there’s a lot of interest in this, which I can understand, particularly as we move from alert level 4 to alert level 3—clearly, the restrictions on visiting people in hospital do create hardships for both family and those in hospitals. We are working on the visitor policy and how it will look under alert level 3. And, just to acknowledge, while this may seem a relatively simple thing on the face of it, along with all the work we’re doing with district health boards, it’s how we do as much care and deliver as much care as possible to people under alert level 3 while keeping patients, staff, and visitors safe. So that work is ongoing, and I will update you on it as soon as it is finished. There is wider testing across a range of communities today, with a particular focus on ensuring we reach Māori and Pacific communities. In Northland, there is increasing testing in conjunction with Māori health providers, and they will be providing mobile testing facilities going out into smaller communities. This provides those with an opportunity to be tested—those who are there as well as general health and wellbeing checks and flu vaccinations. So clinics will be available this week in the Far North, Kaitāia, Hokianga, Kaikohe, Kawakawa, Moerewa, Kaipara, and Kaeō. There’s also a drive-through clinic in both Kerikeri and Whangarei. Taranaki DHB is continuing community testing of people with symptoms and encouraging anyone with symptoms to get tested. They’re working with their Māori health provider network to help set up and deliver a range of outreach options, to take testing closer to home, and, in conjunction with Ngāruahine, Ngāti Ruanui, and Tui Ora Māori health providers, there will be community-based outreach clinics in both North and South Taranaki. And this week around the country there will be testing of selected groups, including health workers and essential workers, as part of our community-based testing—just, again, as part of our surveillance to ensure that we are not missing any undetected cases of COVID-19 out there. Just finally on testing, the CBACs, or community-based assessment centres, are for people who are symptomatic, either referred by Healthline or a general practitioner or if someone does have symptoms. They’re not there to test people who are asymptomatic, and you do not need a test if you’re asymptomatic before going back to work next week. And, finally, just a sort of a more prosaic matter, I’ve extended the existing section 70 notices before they expire at midnight tonight. These are available on our website. There is one change I’d like to talk about which will assist businesses. The existing section 70(1)(m) order required non-essential workplaces to be closed. As indicated by the Prime Minister, businesses will be able to work ahead of our move to alert level 3 carefully over coming days to prepare their workplaces, and the amended order allows for this. And, finally, if you need healthcare for any reason, ring Healthline or visit or ring your GP. Do not put off seeking healthcare, and do not wait to moving to alert level 3. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. I just want to pick up on Dr Bloomfield’s reference to the fact that there were three cases today amongst our confirmed cases who were connected to overseas travel. This is just an opportunity for me to highlight, again, that, regardless of moving to alert level 3, New Zealanders who are returning home will continue to be quarantined and isolated in Government facilities at alert level 3. That will continue on. We have given no endpoint to that part of our response to COVID. It is an intrinsic part of our response, and it is not changing because we are moving alert levels. Let me give you an update on numbers: we currently have 2,403 people in Government-provided facilities—essentially hotels. The number in quarantine—so those who we are testing or who have symptoms—is 97, with the remainder being in isolation, but, again, in those hotels. I wanted to make that clear in case there was any confusion amongst the public over whether that will change; it will not. In terms of Government news more broadly, you will have heard and seen that we are preparing—as Dr Bloomfield pointed out—to transition New Zealand to alert level 3 next week. Level 3 information has been shared, and many of you have been here for that process, and it’s continuing to be updated and communicated, as there were some smaller pieces of work that we needed further advice on. Schools and businesses are preparing, as we speak, for that move from next Tuesday as well. Safety, of course, remains paramount, and I know that’s top of mind for employers and workplaces as they make the necessary preparations to have their teams who cannot work from home re-enter the workforce. On the larger end of this scale, New Zealand’s largest infrastructure project—the Auckland City Rail Link—will be back to work post-lockdown to help support jobs in the construction sector: 200 workers will resume construction works on Tuesday at CRL sites at Britomart, Lower Queen Street, Albert Street, Aotea, Karangahape Road, Mount Eden, and on the Southern Line at Ōtāhuhu, and this will ramp up to pre-pandemic workforce, which was 400, over the week that then follows. We’ve worked really hard to cushion the blow from COVID-19 with initiatives like the wage subsidy and advanced payments to transport contractors, but getting transport infrastructure projects back underway safely is part of our transition out of level 4. Of course, measures appropriate for level 3 are being put in place, including restricting access to site, having workers maintain physical distancing, and providing protective clothing where that is necessary. Waka Kotahi NZ Transport Agency projects and non-essential State highway maintenance will also be able to resume under level 3 as well, but with strict health and safety protocols. NZTA is working with contractors on specific COVID-19 plans for each project to keep workers and the public safe. In the meantime, as you’ll hear me continually repeat, New Zealand is still at alert level 4. And, while I know there will be things we’re all looking forward to under alert level 3, we must not risk the gains that we have made or that many New Zealanders have made sacrifices for over the last four weeks. Police have told me that while 99.9 percent of us are respecting the measures put in place, there are still some who are choosing to flout the rules, and I have the numbers on that for you. As at 6 p.m. yesterday, there had been 4,128 breaches of the CDM and Health Acts, 433 prosecutions, 3,580 official warnings, 115 youth referrals. More than 5,600 reassurance patrols at essential businesses and crime prevention patrols in neighbourhoods and business districts have been carried out in just the past two days. Each and every one of these people involved in breaches risks undoing the work of others. So, again, I say please do not travel unnecessarily or gather. Police will be conducting checkpoints and they will be enforcing the rules, and they do that to keep all of us safe. Finally, you may recall that on Monday I mentioned that some workplaces, as they prepare for the return into workplaces that they need to return to, will be using these next few days to prepare. That includes premises being cleaned in preparation as well. So today my thanks and appreciation goes to our cleaners, and not before time. I’ve had many letters during our lockdown outlining their essential work during alert level 4, such as from another essential business, a meat processor, crediting their cleaners as a core part of their success in continuing to move products around the country for New Zealanders; from our courts, who say their cleaning staff are the first line of defence in keeping our courts safe, often working extra shifts at all times of the day and night; and even Rose, a cleaner at Ōtāhuhu police station who currently works 13 hour days. These are our essential workers, and I hope we continue to recognise them as that long after this pandemic has passed. Thank you for keeping us safe. Now, ready for your questions. Media : Prime Minister, we heard this morning at the COVID committee, from representatives right across the health sector, there’s widespread concern about financial viability. Do you need to urgently financially help the likes of GPs, pharmacies, and dentists? PM : What I’d point out for the likes of pharmacies, the likes of GPs, support has been provided to them. In fact, $45 million to date has gone into general practice to support them during the COVID response. That’s for everything from supporting the virtual consults that they’ve been doing, for additional cost as a part of testing, and also they have been eligible for the wage subsidy. So we have recognised the cost they’ve faced, and we have worked hard to try and support them as well. Media : The flu vaccine roll-out was also described as a debacle by the New Zealand Medical Association. If the flu vaccine roll-out was so poorly orchestrated, how can we ensure the same doesn’t— PM : I disagree with them on that. Media : How can we ensure that the same doesn’t happen with the roll-out of COVID-19 vaccines, should one be developed? PM : Well, firstly, I would disagree with that premise. The flu vaccine, and flu vaccinations, started earlier than we usually would, for good reason—we wanted to be prepared. And we have more flu vaccine than we would usually offer as well. So I disagree with their assessment of the flu vaccine. We know, and we want to protect New Zealanders, and that’s why we moved early in order to do that. And it’s not finished, we should add. That will be a rolling campaign. Media : How can you disagree with that though, Prime Minister, when thousands of people have been turned away from receiving a flu vaccine? PM : Again, the point that I’m making here is that the flu vaccination programme started earlier than it usually would. And we prioritised—[ Interruption ]—if I could finish. And we prioritised those who are at the greatest risk: older New Zealanders, pregnant New Zealanders, and groups that usually would be just waiting with every other New Zealander to be vaccinated. And so we moved early, we got more vaccine, and we continue with the flu vaccination programme as we continue to have more vaccine coming into the country. You’ll recognise that in a pandemic more people are coming forward all at once when we started that programme early. Media : Prime Minister, the Medical Association—and this is also for Dr Bloomfield—they’re asking that the Ministry of Health be in charge of distributing a COVID-19 vaccine, rather than a distribution company, to avoid any issues like have been seen with the flu vaccine. Is that something that’s being considered? PM : Go ahead. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So just to pick up on the flu vaccine again, the flu vaccine is unique in New Zealand in that it is available both through publicly funded people who are eligible and also through the private sector. And it has been so for a long time. This year, PHARMAC have moved to secure an extra 400,000 doses of flu vaccine before COVID-19 was even known about. We then moved to advance the flu vaccination programme so that we could make sure that our most vulnerable New Zealanders could be vaccinate first. And, in fact, over 50 percent of over-65s have already been vaccinated, even under a lockdown situation, so I think that’s fantastic progress. We also, as a ministry, essentially, stepped in on the usual distribution of that vaccine to be able to take national control of it, because in normal circumstances it’s just distributed out to whoever has put an order in, and we wanted to make sure that the distribution was managed from the centre so that it would go out equally across the country. Yes, there has been restrictions on the order size that practices can put in, to 60 vaccines at a time, but they can put in more than one order. And that is so we could make sure that it could be right across the country, rather than sitting in one part of the country. We will—you can rest assured that we are already working actively on not just what we might do to distribute a COVID-19 vaccine, but to make sure that New Zealand has access to it is right across the research and ordering and purchasing and regulatory aspects of any vaccine, once it’s available. Media : Will you be stepping in ahead of time, with regards to that vaccine, given that that is what you had to do given the lack of distribution with the flu vaccine? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the distribution was there, but, because of the extraordinary circumstances, we did step in to really put a control over that—recalling that a lot of that vaccine had been pre-ordered by private providers. We‘ve actually stepped in to stop that, or to delay that, until further down the track, so that our most vulnerable people could be vaccinated. Yes, what I can confirm is we will be managing all aspects of COVID-19 vaccine from the centre. Media : Sir David Skegg just told the committee that if we had reached the gold standard of contact tracing, we’d come out of level 4 now. Is the failure for us to meet that standard earlier—is that causing unnecessary economic hardship? PM : No. No, that was not the basis of the decision. Equally, whilst David Skegg has made that statement, you’ll have seen others—like Shaun Hendy—encourage New Zealand to stay in for two weeks longer, in order to lock in the benefits of being at level 4. So as we’ve said, and as we said on Monday, this was about striking that balance between making sure that we banked those gains, that we were less likely to return to level 4; but, equally, that we could start transitioning our economy towards getting more people into the workplace. We expect an extra 400,000 people will be doing that next week. Media : Those people who have commented at committee today, they’re representatives of front-line workers. So by disagreeing with their statements, are you saying that their concerns aren’t valid? PM : No, not at all. You characterised the roll-out of the flu vaccine in a way that I simply disagreed with. That is not in any way— Media : I didn’t characterise it that way; the New Zealand Medical Association did. PM : You gave a quote that I disagreed with. That does not mean that I in any way trivialise or dismiss the views of our health workforce. In fact, much of what we have done has been informed by what we’ve seen, heard, and know of what’s happening on the ground. It’s been an incredibly important part of our COVID response, and I continually get feedback—both about where we need to do more, go further, but also what people are pleased we’ve done as well. Media : Are you considering requiring aircrew to isolate? It’s still considered a weakness in our border control, and there has been speculation about aircrew being linked to that Bluff wedding cluster. PM : Yep, yep. And I’ll let Dr Bloomfield speak to that specific example around the index case in the Bluff wedding. But, more generally, when it comes to aircrew, of course, you can imagine how difficult it would be to implement a regime where, every time someone went and fulfilled a shift at work, they then had to stay home for two weeks. But what we do need to make sure is that we have protocols in place that protect that workforce and the people around them. What I want to do, as we get to a position of continuing to see smaller and smaller numbers coming in, and as we see those flight numbers drop, just reassess again that all of the protocols we’ve got around, alongside health, around our aircrew are appropriate. But, to date, they have had exemptions because of the expectations of protections in place for them while they are working. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So just a quick additional comment: I had a quite detailed memo last night from my border team, who are working very closely with Air New Zealand, their chief medical officer, because they are reviewing all those protocols, and what has been happening with their crew—in particular, the three international destinations they’re still flying to, which is the western seaboard of the US, Shanghai, and Hong Kong. And there are different arrangements at each, and they’re doing a risk assessment to look at what else they can do to help protect their crew and, of course, to make sure that there’s no breach in the border when those people come back into New Zealand. So there’ll be updated advice and, you know, even increased scrutiny of the procedures in place to help make sure we are not importing any cases through that avenue. Media : Is it acceptable that hospital staff are telling us they’re being bullied or threatened with dismissal if they speak out about lack of PPE or other COVID issues? PM : No; that is absolutely not acceptable. In fact, you, I hope, will have heard that any time there’s been an issue raised about PPE, we’ve really worked hard to investigate the particular circumstances around that. That has tended to often be in front-line community health care, because those are areas where we’ve relied on—or DHBs have a role in distributing to those front-line workers—and we’ve been wanting to ensure that that has been happening and meeting our expectations. So we rely on that feedback, and I would certainly be very upset to hear that anyone didn’t feel they could speak openly about those issues. Media : And, to follow up on that, health workers from across the sector—including pharmacists, doctors, and disability workers—have reiterated their concerns about PPE access. Are you comfortable that everything is working really well; and, if not, what are you going to do about it? PM : Again, and that’s where I would simply ask: please provide those examples. As we’ve said, we do want those front-line community health workers to have access to appropriate PPE, and it’s a matter for us of knowing where that hasn’t happened. As soon as we know that, then we reach out to ensure that that distribution happens. But, again, just general statements make it a little bit difficult for us to unlock what’s happened in those circumstances. But we do not have an issue with the stock of PPE. We continue to try and meet any needs that we’re hearing on the ground, and that’s why we rely on those examples being raised. Media : Prime Minister— PM : Yeah, sorry Jenna, I’ll let you finish your sentence. Media : There have been specific examples, though— PM : Yep. Media —the likes of Middlemore Hospital, the likes of— PM : Yep, and every time they’re raised we follow up. I remember last week you raised with us the issue of one of the aged care facilities, Minister Clark contacted the DHB chair after that to work through what had happened on the ground. As soon as those are raised, we do follow up, and so please keep giving us those examples; that’s the only way we can flush them out. Media : [ Inaudible ] being threatened with dismissal. PM : And I’m again saying— Media : They’re too scared to speak up. PM : —that is completely unacceptable. And, if I were to find where that was happening—there will be follow-up on that. That is not OK. We have a health system where people should feel free to speak freely about concerns they have. That is how we meet the needs of our front-line workers, and it is just not acceptable, ever, to threaten their employment over that. Media : Are you concerned about— PM : Sorry, Ben, I did promise you the next question. Forgive me. Media : That’s alright. It’s not related to COVID, but Canada has suffered its worst modern-day shooting on the weekend, and it’s obviously a fate that’s befallen this nation during your term as well. Can I ask if you’ve reached out to your friend Justin Trudeau and spoken to him, or, if you haven’t, what you would say or what you have said? PM : Yeah, and I know that would’ve been the thoughts of many New Zealanders that that is one of the worst mass shootings that they’ve experienced. And so, yes, I did. I sent a message on behalf of New Zealanders to Prime Minister Trudeau just to pass on our condolences and just to ask if there was anything that we could do as a nation, that we would because we know how important those offers are. They were made to us when we had a horrific experience here. Media : Prime Minister, in regards to there being 35 Air New Zealand flight attendants who have tested positive for COVID, I gather there’s some exemption there around flight attendants in terms of the quarantine. Is there going to be any changes to that given the number that have tested positive? PM : Yeah, again, I’ll let Dr Bloomfield come back to this again, but what I’ll just highlight is there is obviously no exemption for anyone who is symptomatic or who tests positively. You are absolutely obliged to isolate if you are positive for COVID-19 or if you are symptomatic. So any suggestion that someone who is ill or unwell is treated any differently, that is certainly not the case. When it comes to broader quarantine requirements for people who have gone overseas, I’ll let Dr Bloomfield just reiterate the comments he made earlier. Dr Ashley Bloomfield Yes, so the circumstances of the 35 Air New Zealand staff are different, and, of course, many of those date from pre the lockdown period. But just to reiterate, we are reviewing and looking very closely at the more recent cases and what the current risk is for those staff, particularly when they are on their downtime in one of those three destinations that Air New Zealand is flying to and what the arrangements are there on the ground and what else could be done to ensure that they are kept safe there and also that there is appropriate protection for them and for passengers during the flights and then what needs to happen when they do come onshore. PM : I imagine you can think of the—the difficulty, of course, is that this is these individual stewards’ line of work—that if that every time they work a shift they’re required to then isolate, that becomes very difficult, both for the airline and for them. So you may then question why aren’t they then required that, whenever they’re not working, to be only able to be at home. Again, there are issues attached with that as well. That means that for many, many months we could have stewards who wouldn’t be able to ever leave their home. So there are issues that we have to work through here, but we’re very, very aware of the fact that, generally, the border is a vulnerability that we have to make sure we have really watertight arrangements around but that we’re also looking after the wellbeing of those workers—and pilots, I should add, as well. Media : We’ve seen calls from the US, Australia, and Britain for an international inquiry into the origins of the outbreak in Wuhan. What’s New Zealand’s position on that? PM : Yeah, I’ve actually seen those reports, and I’m not sure that I would call them necessarily anything as formal as an inquiry. I think, when asked, there have been politicians around the world who have said, “Look, in the aftermath of this, we do need to look at what happened and whether or not there are areas where we could as a global community improve our response.”, and I think that’s common sense. Of course we want to make sure we learn from what has been a global pandemic that has shaken the globe in a way that none other has for many decades. We need to learn from it, and I think of course New Zealand would be very, very open to making sure that if there is something like this in the future, we have the best response as a globe that we possibly could. Media : Would the Government consider putting a cap on how much Uber Eats could charge its restaurants? It’s around 30 to 35 percent at the moment. PM : Yeah, which, as I understand, has of course been Uber’s business model before and continues to be their model. What I would just encourage consumers—all New Zealanders who may be looking forward next week to accessing takeaway food—is just to look at your favourite local eatery, and I do encourage you to support local businesses, and just see whether or not they offer delivery directly themselves—that will often be, then, at a lesser cost to them as a business—and just see whether or not they’ve got contactless options as well, and that’s probably the best way that we can see those businesses not incurring the costs of being, perhaps, under a surcharge that is quite hefty. Media : Prime Minister, just on WorkSafe, given they’re the regulator of workplace safety, what role is WorkSafe going to be playing in terms of moving to level 3 in businesses? Are they going to be the sort of regulator of that activity, or does it still fall to the health sector? PM : Yeah, you will recall there is a role there to play, and, in fact, the labour inspectorate’s been playing a considerable role all the way through our COVID response—making sure, in particular, that employees are having their legal requirements met. Going forward, MBIE has been working through a framework that enables, really, a form of self-accreditation—just businesses to access the information they need to be able to provide a plan within their own work site to keep their workforce safe. Then it’ll be a matter of us then checking in on those work sites. As you can imagine, there will be a large number opening—400,000 going back to work—and so it won’t be possible to be present everywhere. This is a high-trust model. Media : In terms of the second wave, what’s being done to protect the smaller communities where there’s not access to healthcare and testing to ensure the outbreak doesn’t come from there? PM : Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Ah, so perhaps it’s worth referring back to the comments I made about testing in my opening remarks—that, actually, in particular, in some of those remote communities in Tai Rāwhiti, Taranaki, Northland, for example, there are very deliberate efforts being put in place this week to get mobile testing out to those remote communities, working with local iwi and Māori providers, and this is something that I know all the district health boards are doing around the country at the moment. So, yes, we do want to get out into the more remote parts of their areas, just to make sure there are no undetected cases out there. Media : In the Epidemic Response Committee, some Opposition MPs—Gerry Brownlee, David Seymour, and Simon Bridges among them—have raised concerns about predominantly iwi-led checkpoints. They say people are being intimidated; they’re calling them illegal checkpoints. However, iwi say that this is all about looking after communities, looking after their people, particularly kaumātua. Where do you sit on this—are you OK with those checkpoints? PM : Yeah, I was actually talking with the police leadership just this morning around some of those checkpoints, and the feedback I’ve had is that they’ve been working really closely on the ground to make sure that where communities have established their own response, that they’ve been keeping themselves safe, they’ve been keeping others safe, and they’ve been operating within the law. And so, for me, that’s actually been the important thing—that police have been aware, they’ve been working with those communities. They know that the intention here is just to look after one another, and so long as it’s being done in a way that is not inhibiting what should be free movement and that people are being kept safe, then we can work with some of those responses in our community. Media : So you’re OK with them—you are OK with them. PM : I’ve haven’t had—no one would tolerate reports of bullying or abuse, but I haven’t had them brought to me. In fact, I know the intent has been to look after communities, so as long as there’s really just not overstepping the mark there, there is a way to find a way through. Media : Just a follow-up on that earlier question about regional testing: to Dr Bloomfield, two mystery cases come from the West Coast. Has there been community testing over there; and, if not, why not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Ah, I’m not quite sure what the two mystery cases are. Are they recent cases? I haven’t had any cases there— Media : It’s on behalf of a colleague, and the DHB there said that we had to ask you rather than go through the DHB. PM : I’m not familiar with any in recent times. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No—no cases from West Coast. We did have there—actually, you’ll recall the first death we had was on the West Coast, and it’s still not entirely clear where that case came from. But there have been no cases on the West Coast for some weeks now. Media : Is there any community testing on the West Coast? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t know exactly, but every DHB—actually, we sent a message out to them all yesterday to talk about the testing for this week, and that includes some community testing but focused on groups—for example, healthcare workers and other essential workers, because those are the people who might have been exposed to people coming into their settings. So that’s where the focus will be. We’re expecting plans back from every DHB today, and so we will have a look and I’ll be able to confirm. You may well see community testing. PM : We’ll come back to you on some of that—in fact, we can give you a bit of an outline of some of that community testing that’s going on. Media : [ Inaudible ] clarity on the hunting rules under level 3? PM : I expect there’ll be an announcement on that tomorrow. One of the things that will be happening later on today is that Minister Sage will be talking directly to Fish & Game, because many of you may be familiar with the fact that for duck shooting, that’s something that is gazetted and has already been gazetted. So she’ll be talking to them around what it is we can do to make sure that as many people as possible can participate in the season at the appropriate time. So that’s something that’s happening this evening; I expect announcements tomorrow. Media : Prime Minister, given the impact on small businesses, medium-sized businesses, and workers of the extension of the lockdown, is it acceptable that the small-business Minister and employment Minister fronted the committee yesterday and didn’t have any analysis, data, numbers—anything—in terms of what Cabinet had actually considered the impact would be on them of extending the lockdown? PM : Well, of course, we had a range of scenarios that were already provided by Treasury around the extension of lockdown, or long periods at level 4, in particular, and at level 3. You can understand how it would be quite difficult to get into granular analysis around some of the size of those SMEs who are within the small group who continue to be unable to operate at full strength, so there’s a number of variables that would make that hard. What we do know, though, is that from the wage subsidy that we’ve put out, almost three-quarters of that wage subsidy has gone to SMEs. So we were very aware when we came in to designing the packages that SMEs were going to be some of the most affected groups by New Zealand’s response generally. That’s why the wage subsidy was designed to meet their needs. It was why, of course—and, helpfully, there’s been a deferral of ACC invoicing because of some of those costs SMEs will be facing, the loan underwrite scheme, and, of course, the work we did on commercial leases has all been with SMEs in mind, because New Zealand is predominantly a country of small and medium sized enterprises. So it’s driven much of our decision making. Media : And just a supp on that: in terms of both Deborah Russell and Willie Jackson’s comments, respectfully, do you agree with them? In the case of Deborah Russell, she talked about the fact that small businesses should be able to survive something like what has happened economically with this lockdown, and Willie Jackson saying that nobody will have any great loss in terms of the lockdown, and that it’s fine and everyone will be fine for another week. PM : I disagree with those comments, and the Minister of Finance did—as he appeared at the time—as well. Media : What level would the COVID alert level have to be at for the election to go on as planned? Could it occur under a level 2 or even level 3? PM : So the Electoral Commission has been doing some contingency planning just for a COVID environment in New Zealand more generally. I think—without, again, giving an official ruling on this—I think you can see that at alert level 2, it is a more permissive environment. It is a level where you can have slightly more congregation in the public than you can at the other alert levels. What I would point out is that we have some time to run. It won’t be until June until we’re in a position where the electoral finance regulations—that period starts kicking in, and so we do have time to assess that we’ll be at the right alert level in order for an election to be held. Media : Prime Minister, the principal of Morrinsville College—your— PM : Mr Inger. Media : —yeah—has accused the Government of wanting to pass child-minding responsibilities on to his sector, rather than kind of having people deal with them. What did you make of those comments when you saw them? PM : I can’t but help but wonder if Mr Inger is reflecting that I would have been one of those children returning to school, with my father being a police officer and my mother working at the school. So perhaps he had me in mind when he was making that judgment call. Obviously, I disagree. Media : Dr Bloomfield, he directly also caught up with the ministry’s comments. He said the Marist cluster experience showed that, actually, kids could infect adults. What did you make of that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So it wasn’t a child that introduced the infection into the school in the first place. And, yes, there’s no doubt that children can infect adults, but it seems to be very uncommon is the evidence from around the world. And, of course, I guess the first principle here is the work we have put in as a country over the last four weeks has put us in a position where not only have we got a very small number of cases but we are increasingly confident that there is not undetected COVID-19 out in our community. That is the most important protection for not just children, teachers, and their families but for all New Zealanders. PM : The other thing I think, more generally—just to keep in mind the education more generally—in fact, we are preparing as a nation to transition, and so at level 3 we have 400,000 workers going back into the workplace and we have some children and young people who may be re-entering schools. And, actually, regardless of the differing impacts that COVID-19 may or may not have on different communities, we need a plan for the health, wellbeing, and safety of all of those Kiwis, whether they’re children in schools, teachers in schools, or transport workers. We need to be able to do that safely for all of them, and that’s been top of our mind for all of our planning. Media : Midwives are still asking for additional funding along the lines of what’s been given to pharmacies, just to help with the added costs of working in the time of COVID. We understand there are some discussions ongoing. What’s holding them up, and how are those discussions going? PM : Yeah, and all we’ve needed to do is make sure, of course, that for the COVID-related response that we are meeting COVID-related costs, and so sometimes that takes a little bit to work through, but I’ll leave that to our health Minister. Media : But will there be extra money, though? PM : Again, I’m leaving that to the health Minister. He’s having to work across the health sector to identify where there have been COVID-specific related costs. I know it’s been difficult for our midwives, and they’ve been scaling up some of their response to some of the vulnerable families that they work with, where often their work goes well beyond just midwifery. So I recognise that, but that’s something that our health Minister is working through. Media : Dr Bloomfield, we’re now experiencing a very low number— PM : OK. Media :  Yeah. Now I’ve lost my question. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Very low numbers? Media : We’re now experiencing a very low number of new cases every day. When do you anticipate that that number will drop right down to zero or one? Is there any modelling that’s been done particularly with level 3 in mind? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, what we have got down to is not just a small number but knowing where those cases are coming from, and the second point is probably the more important. So our aim is, of course, to stop any ongoing infection from existing cases and in existing clusters, but recalling that some of those cases—most of the cases we’re now confirming as cases actually were infected a week or more ago and some of them actually before we entered the lockdown period, in the case of a few of the more recent confirmed cases. I think the critical thing here is this is the situation we wanted to be in and the situation we want to stay in, where we identify quickly where any cases are emerging and we’re able to get in there really quickly and do the contact tracing and isolation. Media : Do you have an update on the recent number of cases where the source of the infection is unknown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry, could you just repeat— Media : Do you have an update on the recent number of cases where the source of the infection is unknown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’re down to two, essentially, since the start of April, and we’re continuing to investigate those. They’re not recent onset ones, but they’re two where we just haven’t been able to pinpoint exactly where the infection may have come from. PM : And those are areas where quite a bit of testing is going around the periphery of those individuals. Media : The Aged Care Association is wanting to test all new incoming residents and also those on the front line, given their vulnerability in the aged care sector, and they’re also saying that those three inquiries that are under way will put pressure on their services and increase risk of infection. Could you just respond to those two, please? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sure. In the case of the first point, actually aged residential care workers is one of the groups identified in our message to DHBs yesterday, that they should do some surveillance testing on, just to check, because that is a group that could be at a higher risk. On the issue of what happens to residents going into or going back into aged residential care facilities, just to be clear: anyone with symptoms is tested; anyone who is positive does not go into the facility until they are cleared. Even if they are tested and are negative and all other admissions are isolated for 14 days and treated as if they were COVID-19 positive. So there’s a really—and we agree on this—there’s a very clear process which we agree on to help prevent any further infection from residents coming into any of our aged residential care facilities. We are absolutely focused on that. On the second point, I think you mentioned three inquiries, and I’m aware of the Ombudsman’s inquiry and I’ve also asked my team to do a review; I’m not aware of a third. And certainly in the case of our one, when I first mooted the idea I floated that with the Aged Care Association to look for their support in us doing that, and we’re going to be very careful in going about that that it doesn’t add extra burden to those facilities where our teams go in, and we will aim to do as much of it as possible remotely. Media : Prime Minister, do you think that the National Party and Simon Bridges are guilty of politicising the COVID crisis? PM : You’ll forgive me for being utterly focused on the Government’s response to COVID-19, and that means that I have paid no attention to any, therefore, of the commentary that may have been coming from within the National Party itself. Media : Have you noticed this kind of increased vitriol on social media? We’ve seen one post today that’s, actually, there are death threats against you. And I know that you’ve said that’s an unfortunate reality of your role, but is there a responsibility on Facebook, perhaps, to immediately take down those types of threats, and are you also concerned about that kind of increased level of vitriol? PM : Well, to be honest, as I’ve said, that’s something that does come with the job. And I have not allowed myself to be distracted by anything through this period, including statements made on social media. Media : Prime Minister, the Medical Association says there’s about $22 million of funding they were expecting for GPs that’s being held up at Cabinet. Is there a delay? When can they expect that money? PM : No, I don’t consider there’s been a delay. There has already been support, and that support has totalled $45 million, and that doesn’t include the access GPs had to the wage subsidy as well. We’ve worked very hard to recognise the costs that front-line practices have incurred through COVID-19 but, at the same time, also recognise they will have had a drop in revenue, and many businesses have experienced that too. Media : Just in terms of the breaches, prosecutions, and things—those others that you mentioned earlier—you mentioned youth referrals. Do you have any idea of what the sort of breakdown is? Like, are youth a large chunk of the ones that are kind of behaving badly, or is it older people? PM : No, I certainly don’t believe so, of course, because that number hasn’t grown to a huge degree, and so I haven’t got a breakdown of the number from within the 115 further than the fact that that’s just been the total number of youth referrals. Media : So it’s more the older age group—it’s more adults who are behaving badly? PM : Yeah, I would say, based on that figure, because in total we’ve had 4,128 breaches and, of those, 115 youth referrals. Keeping in mind that within those breaches, that includes warnings as well. Media : Back on that $22 million for GPs, who gave them the impression that they were getting that second payment? How did they get that impression? PM : Again, I’m simply giving you the decisions that have been made by Cabinet and by Ministers. Media : Did the ministry give them false hope? PM : Again, I don’t think $45 million is false hope; I think it’s support and much-needed support. Media : But they were told they were getting a second payment of $22 million. PM : And, again, I can’t get into any conversations beyond those had by Cabinet and decisions made by Cabinet. But I do not think $45 million is an insignificant sum when we think about the support we’re trying to provide across all of New Zealand, including businesses across all of New Zealand. Media : Prime Minister, just with the return of Parliament next week, are you expecting all key Ministers involved in the COVID response to return here to Wellington, and have you had any discussions with the Deputy Prime Minister about whether he’ll be travelling, given his age? PM : I have had some conversations with Ministers around what we’ll be doing at alert level 3, and you’ll remember that small time period we had before we scaled up the response we were conducting Cabinet meetings partially in person and partially with some at distance so we could maintain social distancing. So I do expect we will have a few more Ministers who will be available here. That will include the health Minister—he will be basing himself out of Wellington for alert level 3. And I’m expecting that the Deputy Prime Minister is likely to do the same also. Media : Just an update, Dr Bloomfield, on the number of different people throughout the entire coronavirus [ Inaudible ] that have been hospitalised. I think a few days ago it was 69 different people had been hospitalised at any one point. PM : 79. Media : 79 now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : 79 is the total, so it’s actually a really low proportion compared with what a number of other countries have found where their outbreaks have got out of control. And I think, just to reflect on—one of the things that seems clear is that our testing, because it has been at high rates, we have identified all our COVID-19 cases out there. If you look at countries with higher hospitalisation and death rates, it’s very clear that their total number of cases is actually less than what is almost certainly out there. So our hospitalisation rate around sort of 5 percent, instead of the 15 percent that was the original figure that came out of Wuhan, and our mortality rate at around 1 percent is lower than other countries are seeing. PM : And a median age of hospitalisation of 59. OK, all right then, thank you everyone.
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Finance Minister Hon Grant Robertson Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Watch the media conference.
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 24 April --- Section Separator --- Hon Grant Robertson: Kia ora. Ngā mihi nui kia koutou katoa. Nau mai, haere mai, tēnā hui pāpāho. Greetings everybody. Welcome to the media conference for today. As it’s Friday, you have me, and Dr Caroline McElnay, who will now give you some brief remarks. Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, there are five new cases of COVID-19 to report, made up of two new confirmed cases and three new probable cases. That brings the combined total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand to 1,456. Of the new cases we are reporting today, one is linked to overseas travel, three are linked to existing clusters, and one is still under investigation, but it’s possibly linked to overseas travel. Sadly, however, we are also reporting the death of a man in his 60s who was a resident at Rosewood Rest Home and Hospital in Christchurch. He is the second resident from the hospital-level wing of Rosewood to pass away. This man had underlying health conditions and was considered to be a probable case of COVID-19 based on his exposure history and clinical symptoms. This man, sadly, is the 10th person from the Rosewood cluster to pass away. This illustrates once again the impact that this disease can have on vulnerable people. Every person we lose to COVID-19 is a tragedy, with family and friends left without their loved one, and our thoughts are with them all at this time. There are now 1,095 reported cases of COVID-19 which we can confirm have recovered, and that’s an increase of 30 from yesterday. Today, there are eight people in hospital, and that total includes one person in the ICU in Middlemore. We still have 16 significant clusters, but only one new case attributed to one of those clusters. In total, we have 379 people who are recovered from COVID-19 who were considered to be part of a significant cluster, and, just lastly in terms of testing, yesterday we completed another new record of daily tests, at 6,961 tests, bringing us to a total of 108,238. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. First, I want to add my condolences to the family and friends of the person who has passed. Each death from COVID-19 is a person who was loved and whose family are dealing with grief and death in the most trying of circumstances, and our heartfelt thoughts are with them. As we move towards Anzac weekend, I want to take another opportunity to thank New Zealanders for their extraordinary efforts in helping us position ourselves to be able to control COVID-19. This weekend is a chance to reflect and acknowledge the sacrifices that have been made by those in wartime. It is also a chance to reaffirm our commitment to one another that we will get through this crisis together. Our ongoing vigilance for the remainder of level 4 and for level 3 are critical to successfully finishing the job that we have all collectively started. Today, I want to talk briefly about the changes we can expect to see in the economy as we move into level 3 next week, and how this shift fits within the Government’s wider economic response to the impacts of COVID-19. Our economic plan to respond and recover consists of three waves: the first, fighting the virus and cushioning the blow; the second, positioning for recovery and kick-starting the economy; and the third, resetting and rebuilding our economy. The first wave has obviously been underway for some time. The best economic response to the virus was always going to be a strong public health response, and that’s why our strategy from the start has been to go hard and go early. Getting the virus under control now means we can get our economy back to normal sooner and ahead of many other countries who continue to experience the devastating effects of the virus. We’ve put in place a safety net for as many Kiwis as we can. We can see the impact in the numbers that are part of our weekly economic update released today. Applications for the jobseeker benefit have lifted by 30,000 since 20 March. This is a distressing time for all of those people. We have to bear in mind, though, that this represents less than 1 percent of our total population, and is dwarfed by the 1.6 million people who are being supported by the wage subsidy scheme. These immediate measures mean we were all in a better position to bounce back on the other side of this crisis. I want to emphasise that from the outset, we have worked alongside businesses in the development of our response, and we will continue to do so as we move through the waves. Rob Fyfe and his fellow business leaders have leveraged their resources and networks to provide critical assistance to our all-of-Government response. Business New Zealand, the Council of Trade Unions, and other sector groups have advocated hard for their members, providing useful insights and advice, and I want to thank them for that. We have worked closely with retail banks and the Reserve Bank to ensure the worst-affected businesses and households are supported. This has been a true New Zealand Inc. effort in fighting a once in a century social and economic crisis, and we will be continuing to draw on the good ideas from people of all walks of life as we move through the further phases of our recovery. The second phase of our recovery you will see more of next week. This, as we move into level 3, will see more parts of the economy open up: construction, forestry, manufacturing, online retail, restaurants and cafes that can provide contactless pick-up and delivery—all will be able to resume activity with the appropriate safety measures in place. This means around 400,000 more New Zealanders will return to work under these conditions, providing a real boost to them and their communities. This year’s Budget will devote much of our resources to positioning for recovery and kick-starting the economy, and I’ll have more to say about that on Budget day. The third wave of our work is ensuring that we have a robust and regenerated economy when we come out the other side of this process. This means looking at some of the long-term issues and challenges we have had, such as productivity, sustainability, and inequality, and positioning ourselves to tackle them with renewed vigour and determination. To finish today, I just quickly want to talk about two matters of interest that we have made media releases about. Firstly, Minister Sepuloni and I have released information about the audit of the wage subsidy scheme. The scheme has paid out $10.3 billion to protect jobs and support the incomes of over 1.6 million New Zealanders. We know that the vast majority of New Zealand business owners would access the scheme as we intended it, to protect jobs, support workers’ wages, and stay connected during the lockdown. It’s great to see these 99 percent of business owners doing right by their workers. We owe it to those workers and employers to make sure their good work isn’t undermined by anyone abusing the scheme. We also have a duty to all New Zealanders to ensure taxpayer money is going where it is intended to support the economy. From the start, applicants to the wage subsidy scheme were told that they would have to repay the subsidy if they provided false or misleading information in their application. They were also told that they may be subject to civil proceedings for the recovery of any amount received that they were not entitled to, and/or prosecuted for offences under the Crimes Act. Assurance and audit processes put in place by MSD to support this work are being overseen by a team of 104 fraud experts and investigators. The audit process will identify cases that require investigation. So far, MSD has completed 2,435 random and targeted audits, 2,252 of these have been resolved, and an additional review of 183 cases are currently being undertaken. Two hundred and ninety-two allegations have been received about misuse of the scheme. MSD has resolved 88 of those allegations, while the balance are still being worked on. As at 21 April, 1,281 applicants have voluntarily advised that they wanted to refund all or part of their subsidy. This has led to $16.2 million of refunds requested, and around $7 million of that has already been refunded. As at 21 April, our auditing had resulted in 56 applicants being asked to refund either all or part of their subsidy. A total of $1.25 million has been requested from these applicants, with $168,000 already refunded. We will keep you updated on these statistics in the coming weeks. And, finally, wearing my other hat, Sport New Zealand will this afternoon release detailed guidance on sport and recreation activities that are possible under level 3 from next Tuesday. It remains important to remember under level 3 that the core principles of staying in your bubble, staying local, and only undertaking low-risk activities remain. As we have previously announced, there is a little more flexibility for travel for recreation under level 3, but we ask that this is only undertaken to the extent that it is necessary. Similarly, more recreation activities are now possible, such as some fishing and non-motorised water sports close to land, hunting on private land, and the very limited playing of some sports such as golf and tennis. Full details are available on the Sport New Zealand website. We do encourage people to stay fit and active during this time, but be responsible: do not put yourself or others at risk, do not congregate, and please do not put the amazing gains that we have all made under level 4 at risk. Happy to take your questions. Media: You said $17 million is being paid voluntarily—it’s a lot of money. How much more do you expect will end up being paid back, and what do you make about the country’s biggest law firms taking money from the wage subsidy? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, all people who applied for the wage subsidy scheme had to say that they had been affected by COVID-19 to the extent of a 30 percent reduction in their revenue for a month between January and June of this year. All businesses have to stand by those declarations that they have made. We have to remember and put this in context: we’ve had over 500,000 applications to the scheme; we’ve put out $10 billion worth of money. So these are fractional situations, but everyone who has taken money from the wage subsidy scheme needs to know that our audit teams will be looking across the full sweep of applications, and if anyone believes that perhaps their circumstances are not what they thought they were when they applied, they should get in touch with MSD. Media: Close to 30,000 more people have ended up on the jobseeker benefit in the four weeks since lockdown. Do you think that number would have been considerably higher if it wasn’t for the wage subsidy? And when it runs out, do you expect to see an increase there at the end? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, certainly, in order to access the wage subsidy scheme, employers had to continue the employment of their staff, and what we wanted was this 12- week period to be one of breathing space for people to make their plans for the future. We want as many of those people to stay in work as they possibly can. I actually think the figure of 30,000—while it’s particularly distressing for the individuals involved, when you look at it as a percentage of the workforce and a percentage of the population, it is low compared to the numbers in the wage subsidy scheme, and we’ll continue to work with businesses to support them to keep their employees on board. Jenna. Media: Do you accept that when demand for food parcels has more than tripled, that we have a food poverty crisis in this country? Hon Grant Robertson: Well look, I think what we have is a situation where many New Zealanders have found their outgoings to be ones that they are struggling to meet, and I think for low-income New Zealanders, that’s a particular burden. It’s one of the reasons why we moved quickly to increase benefits. It’s one of the reasons why, from 1 May, you’ll see that the winter energy payment is going up. We have in place the services being provided through our emergency management offices to be able to get food out to those people who need them, and I do recognise for some people this is a very tough time, but the supports are in place for them. Media: Does the Government rely too heavily on charitable organisations to help distribute food parcels—because they say that the demand at this level is unsustainable. Hon Grant Robertson: Well look, I recognise the excellent work that organisations like the Salvation Army and others do to support the most vulnerable in our community. The Government is also stepping up to that as well, and we had the announcement this week of the additional $30 million going in to support the provision of food parcels and other welfare support to those people who need it. We will continue to work with those charities and we’ll continue to make sure that there’s provision of support both through our emergency services but also through the Ministry of Social Development. Media: The Salvation Army says, though, that welfare payments are going to fall well short of what people need to survive. Is that going to be something that you address, and when? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, you know, we’ve had a record while we’ve been in Government of significantly increasing the amount of money that’s available to our most vulnerable people. It’s one of—some of the things we did at the very start of coming into Government was reverse the tax cuts that had been proposed and put in place further support. We’ve lifted benefits, and we continue to work to make sure we lift the incomes of our lowest-income people. Jess. Media: Minister, have you seen the Shop Local campaign, and is that something you’d back when we go into level 3? Hon Grant Robertson: Absolutely—I mean, I think this is a really important time for New Zealanders to think about everyone in their community, and we have a lot of small businesses who haven’t been able to generate any revenue over the last four weeks. Now is the opportunity for us to all support those businesses in our community. I know that a lot of businesses are working out innovative ways of being able to connect the “click and collect”, the “phone and collect” - type situation. So I’d really encourage New Zealanders— as I always do, in fact—to buy local and support the small businesses in your community. Media: What difference could that make if we all focus in like that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think being conscious consumers is a really important part of all of our jobs in normal times, and even more so now. You know, if people make a conscious decision to support a local business—a local retailer, their local food suppliers— that will make a big difference to those people when they’re coming back out of a period of time when they have found it really difficult. Media: Moving to alert level 3 means there’s going to be, you know, greater volume of activity, more movement—all of that. Crown Law advice that’s just come out today says it’s going to make it more difficult to issue those lawful notices and to enforce them, so do you think it’s been made clear enough to the public in terms of level 3, and what is and isn’t required, in order to get that buy-in from the public, bearing in mind that we were two weeks into level 4 and some of that stuff was still being sorted out? Hon Grant Robertson Yeah, again, I want to reiterate the point: I think New Zealanders have done extraordinarily well under level 4, and when you look at those statistics like traffic movement and so on, and when we compare ourselves to the rest of the world, we have gone along and been responsible as part of our work under level 4 that each of us has had to do. As we move to level 3—yes—there will be some adjustments, and it may take a little bit of time for everybody to get used to the rules, but I’m really confident. I trust New Zealanders, that they know how important finishing the job is, and that we’ll all get used to some of the differences in level 3. One thing to make really clear: level 3 is still a very restrictive environment, and while we’re going to see more economic activity, those core principles still remain. Stay in your bubble, stay at home if you can, keep it local—those things are going to be the real difference that we can make in getting on top of this virus once and for all. Tova. Media: Just a question for Dr McElnay: the man who passed away at Rosewood—was he able to have his family with him, and can you clarify exactly what the rules are now for family who have members who are passing away or who are in a critical condition? Dr Caroline McElnay: OK, I actually don’t have that information about this gentleman or whether his family were with him, but we can get that information to you. In terms of visitor policy, that’s a piece of work that we’re working through as we move into level 3. And for people who are confirmed or probable cases of COVID-19 who are in hospital, they do need to have the express permission of the clinician who’s looking after them, and they will have to wear PPE provided by the district health board. So it’s not a blanket no; we will be working with families and with the clinical staff to enable that where possible. Media: Are you satisfied that that’s been consistent to date? Because there have been some examples—haven’t there—where family have been able to visit and other examples where they haven’t. Are you assured that across all DHBs and across all places where there are COVID cases that there’s a consistent policy? Dr Caroline McElnay: I think as we move forward into level 3, it allows us to be a little bit more relaxed, but at the same time to have very tight management for those patients who are COVID-19 - confirmed or probable. But there’s also some other specific situations, such as residential care homes, where, because of the vulnerability of that group, there will continue to be quite tight restrictions—very tight restrictions—on visitor access into those communities. We’ve seen that with the Rosewood cluster and the unfortunate deaths that have occurred there that those are really vulnerable places, so we do need in level 3, as we go forward, and probably in level 2 as well—need to keep a high level of protection. But at the same time, we do want families to be able to be in touch with their loved ones, so we’ll be working through the specific details down the track for level 2. Hon Grant Robertson: We’ll just go to Andrea. Media: From teachers, there’s quite a lot of concern about your increased workload in terms of cleaning, sanitation, online learning, and maintaining the bubble as we move to level 3. Can you offer them any reassurances, and can you just outline what extra support is in place for them? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I know that the Ministry of Education has been working very closely with schools on how they do implement the level 3 conditions. Clearly, it will be different, and needing to manage, for example, online teaching and in-classroom teaching will take a bit of getting used to. I think we all recognise that these are very unique circumstances, and that we all will give a degree of latitude to both teachers and also their students as to how to make sure this works best. Within schools, obviously, they have staff who are responsible for cleaning, and I’m sure principals will be working very closely with those staff—who are so important to all of our wellbeing in this time—to make sure that schools are working as they are intended. I’ve certainly seen reports of principals in their classrooms measuring out the distance between desks, making sure they’re organised where bubbles of children will go. But let’s make sure we just give ourselves—all of us—a bit of slack, including teachers and principals, as this starts to happen next week, so that we can make sure we get it right. Media: In terms of testing— Hon Grant Robertson: Just a follow-up? Yep. Media: Yes—lots more questions, sorry! Can you outline what work’s been undertaken for level 2 on contact sport—whether that will be allowed to continue with social distancing and sanitation of equipment, will that occur, and what will the guidelines be? Hon Grant Robertson: So work is under way as to what may be possible for professional support, particularly, at level 2. Sport New Zealand has been working with the major sporting codes on designing a potential way that that could occur. Clearly, it would have to be cognisant of the rules of level 2—for instance, the fact that we won’t have large, mass gatherings. So if there is to be professional sport played, it will be largely in empty stadia. But also we have to make sure that if there are bubbles created of teams and the people around their teams, that those bubbles are safe. There’s also issues to do with travel to work through as well. So that work is under way right now, and we’ll have more to say about it as it develops. Media: So could we have sport like a Super Rugby bubble and a netball bubble—could those tournaments go ahead this year? Hon Grant Robertson: I know that both rugby and netball are sports that are working on proposals, but I hasten to add all of this has to be done in a way that upholds our public health guidelines, so that’s why that work has to happen. Benedict. Media: What sort of steps do you expect tennis clubs to be taking in terms of tennis being able to restart? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I do think it’s incredibly important that anybody who ends up playing tennis or playing golf in this situation sticks to those core principles—so that is only in your bubble, do not congregate, do make sure that you only use your own equipment. Clubhouses and so on will not be open, so if it’s going to be a situation where you need to book a time, you’ll have to be able to do that online, and I think a number of clubs probably won’t open as a result of that. But, using those core principles, clubs will be able to provide that facility, but it will be limited and it will not be available on public courses. Media: In terms of testing, why don’t you start testing our most vulnerable populations like those at the care facilities, considering we know the spread of the virus in such facilities can happen so swiftly? Dr Caroline McElnay: So we have been working with the district health boards to get more information about the level of COVID-19 disease in our community, and so for the last two weeks there’s been quite a rapid—a ramping up of the number of tests that have been done. We have suggested that they be targeted in to places where we’re seeing cases—or, actually, where we’re not seeing cases—just to give us a better picture. But, going forward, what we’re developing is a much more targeted testing plan to actually give us a much more representative picture of COVID-19 across New Zealand, and that may include some targeted workplace testing, but it will be part of that structured plan. And so that’s the approach that we’re taking at the moment. Media: But specifically for aged-care facilities—I mean, those are our most deadly at the moment—will you test in aged-care facilities? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, testing is already happening in aged-care facilities where there are potential suspect cases, and we’ve been working with the aged - residential care sector to develop policies around how to protect staff and residents there. There can be a danger to just see that testing residents coming into a facility would be the answer, because a test is only an assessment at that one point in time, and there’s a number of other policies and procedures that work really well to reduce any risk, such as any new residents actually being in isolation for 14 days before they come in. The danger is if you test negative on arrival, you might still, if you’ve been exposed, be incubating disease. So it’s about having a broad strategy so that we protect the residents, because we really do want to do that. And we’re seeing, sadly, the impact of COVID-19 in these communities, but also we do want to protect the staff and visitors. So it’s a package that we have to look at, not just one particular aspect. Hon Grant Robertson: Ben—we’ll come to Ben, and then we’ll come back over here. Media: Can I ask: are you keeping data on the nationality of people contracting COVID-19 in New Zealand, and what is it telling you? Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, we are keeping data. That is part of our reporting, and we have—some data is available on our website. That is—in the early days, that reflected that we had a high proportion of non-Māori who were infected with COVID-19. In the early days, we saw a lot of people returning or coming into New Zealand from overseas. The data, as it shows, is not—it’s not really telling us that we’ve got a particular problem in our Māori community or our Pacific community. It is driven a lot by the clusters that we’re seeing and the people who are affected in those clusters. Hon Grant Robertson: Ben, were you asking about nationality or ethnicity? Media: [Inaudible] Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, so I don’t believe, actually, that the data is being broken down by nationality per se. I would suspect the very large bulk of the cases are people with New Zealand passports. Media: Just on the latest death, 60 seems young. Can you detail the sort of underlying health conditions, and do you know if it is the youngest death we’ve had so far? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have the precise age of this gentleman, and the death that was reported yesterday was also someone in their 60s. So with this gentleman, what I can tell you is that he did have existing comorbidities. This was a resident of the Rosewood facility, so although he was in his 60s, he did have significant underlying conditions. Hon Grant Robertson: I also just think that it’s important to note that while many of the deaths that we have seen have been people who are older than that, it is true that around the world, COVID-19 has caused the death of people of every age group, and that’s why it remains really important for all of us to continue to be vigilant. Media: Minister, can I ask about the Cook Islands group who are being repatriated back. How collaboratively have we been working with the Cook Islands Government on this? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has been working collaboratively with all Governments where there are repatriation issues, either New Zealanders coming back to New Zealand or those that are here in New Zealand. I don’t believe I have the information specifically with me about the Cook Islands group, but I’m happy to come back to you, Jess, on that. Media: At the moment, the expectations are they do two weeks of quarantine here, in Auckland, and then two weeks back home. I mean, a month of quarantine—is that necessary? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s really important—I’m not going to speak specifically about the Cook Islands case because I don’t have that information in front of me. But I do think it’s really important that we respect each country’s rules around quarantine. Particularly when we think about our Pacific neighbours, where in many cases they’re trying to limit themselves to no cases, or have had very, very few cases, it’s easy to understand why they want to be very, very protective of that. But I’m sure conversations have been going on between MFAT and the Cook Islands Government on that. But, in the end, we do need to respect that other countries will have their own rules in place. Media: But that’s obviously not best practice, because we hadn’t been following that ourselves—that we’re doing two weeks. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah well, exactly—we’re doing two weeks, but the Cook Islands is also doing two weeks, and so the issue is that each country will have its own rules and its own systems in place. Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, and also I think you have to look at the ability of the health system to respond to cases. In New Zealand, we clearly do have the capacity to do that. I think that’s where it’s for every country to determine what is their ability to manage COVID-19 cases in their own country, and so that is probably influencing the Cook Islands. Media: So do you think that’s fair enough to request someone to stay in quarantine for a month—is that what other countries around the world are doing, too? Dr Caroline McElnay: I think other countries are making different decisions, but, from a health perspective, there is a lot of logic behind it. Media: Minister, are you considering any particular support for mortgage holders, and how concerned are you that if, or when, unemployment rises—particularly after the wage subsidy runs out—mortgage holders might struggle to pay their mortgages, even with deferrals, and that really puts our system in quite a vulnerable position? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I mean it’s important to note in the first instance that the mortgage deferral scheme was set up as a six-month scheme, and I know that the arrangements that have been made between a lot of mortgage holders and their banks are for things like interest-only payments for an extended period of time. Obviously, we’re doing our very best to ensure we limit the number of people who lose their jobs, but clearly in a situation where that does happen, there’s going to a significant shock to people’s income. We’re continuing to work on what we can do to support both household incomes and business-level incomes to be able to sustain themselves through this period. Media: Are you considering any type of targeted support at people who are in that position—so at mortgage holders, particularly? Hon Grant Robertson: I wouldn’t say we’re particularly looking at mortgage holders, but we are continuing—as we have done all the way through this process—to look at what we can do to support New Zealanders to get through this. I think you’ve seen that we’ve been prepared to be flexible and open to different ideas, and we’re continuing to work on what that looks like for both businesses and households. Media: From doctors and dentists—we’re hearing consistently from dentists that they’re having to fund their own PPE, and then that cost is going to have to be passed on to patients. Is that reasonable? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I’ll leave Dr McElnay to talk about the distribution of PPE, but it is important that all of our front-line health workers have access to it. There is no shortage of PPE in New Zealand, and we’ve had this discussion many times in this room about the distribution-related issues. But from our perspective as a Government, we believe that we have purchased, and we are continuing to purchase, the amount of PPE that’s required. But, Dr McElnay, I don’t know if you have anything in particular on dentists. Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have any particular information on dentists. We’re doing a stocktake of the PPE that’s out there, and we’ll know the results of that next week. Hon Grant Robertson: Down the back. [Interruption] Just over here, and we’ll come to you. Media: I want to know what your thinking is around how this helicopter money payment, if it goes ahead, would happen—I mean, would you have to issue bonds for it, and would the Reserve Bank buy those bonds, or the primary or secondary market? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think we’re getting well of ourselves to be talking about that. What we are looking at is a broad economic response that allows us to deal with the here and now, making sure that we keep people in jobs, supporting firms to keep going, then we move into the phase of our recovery, and we look for ways of continuing to support that, and there will come a time, I’m sure, when we’ll need some more stimulus in the economy. There are a range of options available to us as to how we’ll do that; we haven’t made any decisions on that yet. Media: We’ve seen in Northland that the Northland DHB and Māori health providers have ramped up testing in that area. Is the ministry and DHBs confident that you’re getting into all of those sort of smaller, at-risk communities across the country, and have you had any results back from that increased testing in Northland? Dr Caroline McElnay: We’ve seen a significant increase in the number of tests that have been done across the country, and that’s been the specific advice that we’ve given to the district health boards. So there are quite a number of communities that have been reached out to—particularly in Northland and Tai Rāwhiti—and we’re still receiving the results in from many of those particular outreach programmes. But the test results that we report on a daily basis, that’s telling us whether they’ve actually picked up any positive tests, and none of those additional testing in those communities have identified any positive cases. So that’s really good news. Media: And what about the testing for those that are in quarantine in hotels in Auckland—you know, are you making sure that those people that come in at different stages from overseas aren’t mixing with other people in quarantine, and do they get tested before they’re being let out? Dr Caroline McElnay: So as they come in across the border, there’s an assessment made for everyone who is coming across the border, checking for symptoms. Anybody who is symptomatic is put into a different group, and that group is taken to a different facility, and testing is done for those individuals. The other individuals are then going to a separate facility—so we’re separating those who are in quarantine versus those who are in isolation. Those who are symptomatic and test positive, then we manage them as every other COVID-19 case. They are required to stay for the full 14 days. We’re not testing on release, but we have managed that full 14 days in quarantine. Media: Doesn’t that leave you open to sort of cross-contamination, though, if you’ve got people who aren’t symptomatic mixing with other people who aren’t symptomatic but they haven’t had long enough for the symptoms to show? Dr Caroline McElnay: No. They’re all kept in isolation, so they’re all separate— they’re not mixing. Media: Dr McElnay, sorry if I’ve missed this in the past week. Just in regards to the Rosewood cluster, has it been determined how the virus actually got into the facility? Dr Caroline McElnay: That’s still under investigation, and that’s one of the reasons why there’s been widespread testing of staff and patients at Rosewood, and one of the reasons why we’re also—when we get other cases in that situation, also doing further testing. But that’s still under investigation. Media: Well, what degree of confidence do you have in actually being able to pinpoint the index case? Dr Caroline McElnay: It can be challenging in some situations to say exactly who the index case is, but with most of our cases, when we’ve gone back and reviewed the origin of a cluster, we are usually in those cases able to say we know who the person is, say, or we suspect who the index case is. What can be a little bit challenging in the past has been to say how that person acquired their infection. What we’re seeing—and this is really important—is looking over the last two weeks, we’re not seeing situations where we can’t identify how that person acquired their disease. So that’s telling us we would have extremely low levels, if any, of community transmission—unknown cases—out there in the community, and we’ve seen that evidence become much stronger with each day in the last two weeks. Hon Grant Robertson: We’re just going to come down the front, and we’ll come back. Media: The latest ethnicity data we’ve received show that the positive COVID-19 numbers in the Bay of Plenty, and specifically where there’s iwi roadblocks, are really low. Do you believe those iwi roadblocks are actually contributing to keeping those numbers low? Hon Grant Robertson: I think what we—well, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we know that people in their communities really care about keeping their communities safe, and, obviously, the New Zealand Police have been talking with people where some iwi members, for example, have been working to do exactly that. Where that works in such a way that everybody understands what’s happening and works closely with one another, I’m sure it is going to be a help in what’s going on. The really good thing, I think, is that in terms of the level of testing that we’re doing, for example, for Māori, we’re testing Māori at a very high rate relative to the size of the population, and so that’s giving us some real confidence about the data that we’ve got. Media: Can I have just one more? Hon Grant Robertson: One more at the front here. Media: Just one more—with the RSE workers for Pacific Islanders, is there any support for them whose visas have expired or their businesses can’t support them any more? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, certainly, I know that in the early days, the ability of workers to be able to, for instance, transfer from one particular type of work they were doing to another was being facilitated, and, you know, we are at the point in the season where we do need workers to be working on a number of our orchards and kiwifruit vines, so that work was being facilitated at the beginning. In terms of people who are in that situation who are migrant workers who may not be in work now, all of the services that our civil defence and emergency management are providing in those emergency settings are available to those people. Media: There have today been some renewed calls for Government to increase protections for commercial tenants, including a six-month ban on lease cancellations, debt recovery action by landlords—is that something at all you’re considering? If not, what’s your message? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, so we already have made some changes to the rules around this to ensure that we can’t have forced evictions of peoples up to 30 days, and that, really, was designed in order to create a much more orderly conversation between tenants and landlords. It’s very important to remember that a very large number of the leases that operate at the moment in commercial settings have a clause in them that if a tenant isn’t able to occupy, there can be and there should be rent remission, and I know that that is happening in a lot of places. We’re continuing to look at what other measures we can do to continue to support the relationships between tenants and landlords, but we, once again, urge parties to sit down together and come to a reasonable solution. Jenna. Media: How concerned are you about people not getting the healthcare they need, including dental work, during levels 4 and 3? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I’ll let Dr McElnay respond to this as well, but you’ve heard the consistent message on this stage from both the Prime Minister and Dr Bloomfield that people should be seeking medical care if they need it at this time. It’s urgent that people don’t allow things to fester; that they don’t allow themselves to get really, really unwell. Our medical services are still available, our health services are still available to people, and we strongly encourage them to use them. Dr McElnay, do you have anything to add? Dr Caroline McElnay: Nothing, really, to add to that. As we move forward into level 3, then we’ll start to see more of those health facilities opening up, but we still have to really manage the potential risk from COVID-19. Media: Do you think that MFAT’s doing enough to help Kiwis get home? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, MFAT staff all around the world have been working incredibly hard, and you’ll be aware that various repatriation flights continue to be worked on and to come back. The latest ones I know are around nine New Zealanders travelling from Bangladesh who were on a flight that was either due in late last night or early this morning, and we continue to work on significant cases right around the world. Media: Specifically, Thailand’s closed its land borders. When will New Zealanders stuck in Cambodia and Laos be able to get home? Hon Grant Robertson: I’m just looking to see in the notes that I’ve been given here whether or not there’s anything on Cambodia and Laos. I do know that New Zealanders in Thailand—the embassy there is continuing to work closely on what may be possible. So if we’ve got anything more to report on that, we will. Media: But people can’t get across the borders into Thailand. Hon Grant Robertson: Look, there were always—and we’ve said from the beginning—going to be significant issues for the small pockets of New Zealanders who find themselves in places that are both difficult to get into and difficult to get out of. We strongly encourage those people to register with MFAT, and that means that we can start to apply the consular support that is available. But I think you’ll understand that given the different circumstances in different countries, we’ve just got to work this through. You’ve seen a regular number of repatriation flights, and I know MFAT’s working hard on those. I’ll do Jo, and then Jenna. Media: How realistic is this idea of a trans-Tasman bubble, and what level is the work at? Is it just a conversation that’s going on between the Prime Ministers or their officials, or is border enforcement, airports—are they actually having serious conversations about how they would do this? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, look, I think it’s very early days, is what I would say. We all know as New Zealanders that one of the things that’s allowed us to be in the strong position we are in terms of getting on top of this virus are our border restrictions, and the Prime Minister has been clear that those border restrictions will be with us for some time to come. The good news is that both New Zealand and Australia are doing well in terms of fighting the virus, and so at some time in the future it may be possible, but I don’t think people should get ahead of themselves. Those discussions are at an early level. Media: And would you ever do it at like a state by state level? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think we have to work that through. Clearly, in Australia there are different responses in different states, but it is very important for us that we continue to maintain the integrity of our border. It has been one of the best things we have done in fighting this virus, and I, along with all New Zealanders, want us to get to the point when we can see some movement of people across our borders and start those relationships with Australia again. But it will take some time for us to get there. Media: Just on the Attorney-General’s Cabinet paper released today, how likely is it that a special piece of COVID-19 legislation might be put in place for alert level 2? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh look, there are issues that are being worked through at the moment by the Attorney-General at each stage of our movement through the framework. You can imagine that Crown Law, who advised the Attorney-General, looked very, very closely at what is required from a legal standpoint for us to be able to undertake the activities we do. Clearly, as we move through the levels, we change from the influence of a pandemic notice and then what happens after that. So that’s the work that’s underway right now with Crown Law. Media: Do you have a sense of whether the national state of emergency may still apply into alert level 2, or would the— Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I haven’t got advice on that at this point in time. But I do know, as I say, that as we move through the alert levels, there will obviously be different forms of regulation that are required, and whether or not there needs to be extensions of both the pandemic notice and the state of emergency are the very issues that Crown Law that is advising the Attorney-General on. I’ll do Benedict and then Andrea, and then come back. Media: Do you believe that the job seeker figures that were put out today—do you believe they capture the full number of job losses that have occurred because of coronavirus? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I’m quite sure that people who have found themselves in the situation where they’ve lost their job will seek the assistance that’s available to them, and so I think it’s a sign that there have been a number of job losses, but it’s also a sign that, relatively speaking to the working the working-age population, it is a smaller number than you’re seeing in a lot of other countries. Media: But people who have partners that still earn and, you know, who haven’t lost their jobs might still earn good money—they can’t apply, can they? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it depends on the circumstances of those partners, but also there is other support available such as the accommodation supplement and so on. To a wider point, Benedict, of what you’re asking, clearly, we won’t understand the full impact of COVID-19 on unemployment or on the economy more generally until some months in the future. What we do know is we’ve put in place the kind of safety net that’s allowed 1.6 million New Zealanders to stay attached to their employer and to get the support they need and stay in a job, and we’re going to continue to work on that. Andrea. Media: On child poverty, that was obviously a big focus of your Government, are you worried that any of the gains that you made are will now backslide, and are you going to have to adjust and shift those targets that you’ve set out? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, the targets are in law, so I don’t think there will be much changing of them. But the important thing for us is that we don’t allow inequality to grow as a result of this crisis, and the Government’s focus on child poverty will not waiver. We will have to redouble our efforts, and I mentioned before, when I was talking about the long-term issues that we need to face up to in the economy, one of those is the fact we’ve persistent inequality in New Zealand. We’ve made big strides to address that, and we’re going to have to continue to support it. I have no doubt, if you look at the history of these kinds of major disruptions to the economy, it is people on the lowest incomes who get affected the most. We’re very conscious of that, and we’re continuing to work to make sure we can support those people. Media: So you might miss those targets, then? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, look, it’s far too early to even make a judgment on that. We’ll just take a couple more. Media: Minister, is it ever OK to joke about domestic violence? Hon Grant Robertson: I beg your pardon? Sorry, Jenna, I actually just didn’t hear you. Media: Is it ever OK to joke about domestic violence? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it’s certainly not something that I would do, and I think you might be referring to a brief interchange that I saw online last night from the select committee—is that what you’re referring to? Yeah, look, I mean for me, no—I think domestic violence is a scourge in our society. I don’t have all of the circumstances that led up to or came after that, but I don’t think any New Zealander should take domestic violence lightly. Ben. Media: Minister, 10 days ago, you published a number of Treasury scenarios—they were not forecasts; they were scenarios—and a couple of those were baseline things that were plainly not going to happen because it didn’t reflect what was actually being done. When will you publish actual forecasts, or your belief or understanding on where the economy is tracking? Hon Grant Robertson: That will be in the Budget, in three weeks’ time. Media: So no information for [Inaudible] four weeks? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, no, the scenarios are what they are, and you’re getting a weekly economic update from the Treasury which provides a host of different information. But in terms of the dedicated forecasts, that will be in the Budget. Last one. Media: What are you planning to do to get banks to loosen their lending criteria around these loans that are guaranteed by the Government? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, I mean banks have given out somewhere between $5 billion and $6 billion worth of extra loans over the last few weeks, which is a very large amount of money. The Government-backed loan guarantee scheme was designed to be able to make sure that particularly small and medium enterprises could get access to the credit that they needed. That scheme is only really just fully underway now, and we’re continuing to work with the banks to make sure that that is being promoted and provided and put on offer to the people who need it. And I’d just reiterate something I’ve said a couple of times, which is that if you were a customer who went to a bank and a few weeks ago perhaps didn’t get the answer you were looking for, go back now, because that scheme is fully operational. I’ll just take Jo and then we’ll— Media: Last one for Dr McElnay, actually—sorry. Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t want another one, Jo, so that’s all right! Media: Just on contact tracing, are the Government—or Ministry of Health, more so— going to audit the system again before going to level 3 on Tuesday? Dr Caroline McElnay: We have already this week been doing some audits, updates, outside of the ministry, out at DHB level, and so that will add to the information that we’ve got about the performance of the system. Hon Grant Robertson: And you’ll be aware too that the Minister of Health has established the oversight committee as well, so that’s getting underway. So I think you’ll find that the attention of both the Ministry of Health and of the Government will be very closely on contact tracing in coming days and weeks. Thanks, everyone. Enjoy your weekend. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Hon Grant Robertson: Kia ora. Ngā mihi nui kia koutou katoa. Nau mai, haere mai, tēnā hui pāpāho. Greetings everybody. Welcome to the media conference for today. As it’s Friday, you have me, and Dr Caroline McElnay, who will now give you some brief remarks. --- Section Separator --- Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, there are five new cases of COVID-19 to report, made up of two new confirmed cases and three new probable cases. That brings the combined total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand to 1,456. Of the new cases we are reporting today, one is linked to overseas travel, three are linked to existing clusters, and one is still under investigation, but it’s possibly linked to overseas travel. Sadly, however, we are also reporting the death of a man in his 60s who was a resident at Rosewood Rest Home and Hospital in Christchurch. He is the second resident from the hospital-level wing of Rosewood to pass away. This man had underlying health conditions and was considered to be a probable case of COVID-19 based on his exposure history and clinical symptoms. This man, sadly, is the 10th person from the Rosewood cluster to pass away. This illustrates once again the impact that this disease can have on vulnerable people. Every person we lose to COVID-19 is a tragedy, with family and friends left without their loved one, and our thoughts are with them all at this time. There are now 1,095 reported cases of COVID-19 which we can confirm have recovered, and that’s an increase of 30 from yesterday. Today, there are eight people in hospital, and that total includes one person in the ICU in Middlemore. We still have 16 significant clusters, but only one new case attributed to one of those clusters. In total, we have 379 people who are recovered from COVID-19 who were considered to be part of a significant cluster, and, just lastly in terms of testing, yesterday we completed another new record of daily tests, at 6,961 tests, bringing us to a total of 108,238. Thank you. --- Section Separator --- Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. First, I want to add my condolences to the family and friends of the person who has passed. Each death from COVID-19 is a person who was loved and whose family are dealing with grief and death in the most trying of circumstances, and our heartfelt thoughts are with them. As we move towards Anzac weekend, I want to take another opportunity to thank New Zealanders for their extraordinary efforts in helping us position ourselves to be able to control COVID-19. This weekend is a chance to reflect and acknowledge the sacrifices that have been made by those in wartime. It is also a chance to reaffirm our commitment to one another that we will get through this crisis together. Our ongoing vigilance for the remainder of level 4 and for level 3 are critical to successfully finishing the job that we have all collectively started. Today, I want to talk briefly about the changes we can expect to see in the economy as we move into level 3 next week, and how this shift fits within the Government’s wider economic response to the impacts of COVID-19. Our economic plan to respond and recover consists of three waves: the first, fighting the virus and cushioning the blow; the second, positioning for recovery and kick-starting the economy; and the third, resetting and rebuilding our economy. The first wave has obviously been underway for some time. The best economic response to the virus was always going to be a strong public health response, and that’s why our strategy from the start has been to go hard and go early. Getting the virus under control now means we can get our economy back to normal sooner and ahead of many other countries who continue to experience the devastating effects of the virus. We’ve put in place a safety net for as many Kiwis as we can. We can see the impact in the numbers that are part of our weekly economic update released today. Applications for the jobseeker benefit have lifted by 30,000 since 20 March. This is a distressing time for all of those people. We have to bear in mind, though, that this represents less than 1 percent of our total population, and is dwarfed by the 1.6 million people who are being supported by the wage subsidy scheme. These immediate measures mean we were all in a better position to bounce back on the other side of this crisis. I want to emphasise that from the outset, we have worked alongside businesses in the development of our response, and we will continue to do so as we move through the waves. Rob Fyfe and his fellow business leaders have leveraged their resources and networks to provide critical assistance to our all-of-Government response. Business New Zealand, the Council of Trade Unions, and other sector groups have advocated hard for their members, providing useful insights and advice, and I want to thank them for that. We have worked closely with retail banks and the Reserve Bank to ensure the worst-affected businesses and households are supported. This has been a true New Zealand Inc. effort in fighting a once in a century social and economic crisis, and we will be continuing to draw on the good ideas from people of all walks of life as we move through the further phases of our recovery. The second phase of our recovery you will see more of next week. This, as we move into level 3, will see more parts of the economy open up: construction, forestry, manufacturing, online retail, restaurants and cafes that can provide contactless pick-up and delivery—all will be able to resume activity with the appropriate safety measures in place. This means around 400,000 more New Zealanders will return to work under these conditions, providing a real boost to them and their communities. This year’s Budget will devote much of our resources to positioning for recovery and kick-starting the economy, and I’ll have more to say about that on Budget day. The third wave of our work is ensuring that we have a robust and regenerated economy when we come out the other side of this process. This means looking at some of the long-term issues and challenges we have had, such as productivity, sustainability, and inequality, and positioning ourselves to tackle them with renewed vigour and determination. To finish today, I just quickly want to talk about two matters of interest that we have made media releases about. Firstly, Minister Sepuloni and I have released information about the audit of the wage subsidy scheme. The scheme has paid out $10.3 billion to protect jobs and support the incomes of over 1.6 million New Zealanders. We know that the vast majority of New Zealand business owners would access the scheme as we intended it, to protect jobs, support workers’ wages, and stay connected during the lockdown. It’s great to see these 99 percent of business owners doing right by their workers. We owe it to those workers and employers to make sure their good work isn’t undermined by anyone abusing the scheme. We also have a duty to all New Zealanders to ensure taxpayer money is going where it is intended to support the economy. From the start, applicants to the wage subsidy scheme were told that they would have to repay the subsidy if they provided false or misleading information in their application. They were also told that they may be subject to civil proceedings for the recovery of any amount received that they were not entitled to, and/or prosecuted for offences under the Crimes Act. Assurance and audit processes put in place by MSD to support this work are being overseen by a team of 104 fraud experts and investigators. The audit process will identify cases that require investigation. So far, MSD has completed 2,435 random and targeted audits, 2,252 of these have been resolved, and an additional review of 183 cases are currently being undertaken. Two hundred and ninety-two allegations have been received about misuse of the scheme. MSD has resolved 88 of those allegations, while the balance are still being worked on. As at 21 April, 1,281 applicants have voluntarily advised that they wanted to refund all or part of their subsidy. This has led to $16.2 million of refunds requested, and around $7 million of that has already been refunded. As at 21 April, our auditing had resulted in 56 applicants being asked to refund either all or part of their subsidy. A total of $1.25 million has been requested from these applicants, with $168,000 already refunded. We will keep you updated on these statistics in the coming weeks. And, finally, wearing my other hat, Sport New Zealand will this afternoon release detailed guidance on sport and recreation activities that are possible under level 3 from next Tuesday. It remains important to remember under level 3 that the core principles of staying in your bubble, staying local, and only undertaking low-risk activities remain. As we have previously announced, there is a little more flexibility for travel for recreation under level 3, but we ask that this is only undertaken to the extent that it is necessary. Similarly, more recreation activities are now possible, such as some fishing and non-motorised water sports close to land, hunting on private land, and the very limited playing of some sports such as golf and tennis. Full details are available on the Sport New Zealand website. We do encourage people to stay fit and active during this time, but be responsible: do not put yourself or others at risk, do not congregate, and please do not put the amazing gains that we have all made under level 4 at risk. Happy to take your questions. --- Section Separator --- Media: You said $17 million is being paid voluntarily—it’s a lot of money. How much more do you expect will end up being paid back, and what do you make about the country’s biggest law firms taking money from the wage subsidy? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, all people who applied for the wage subsidy scheme had to say that they had been affected by COVID-19 to the extent of a 30 percent reduction in their revenue for a month between January and June of this year. All businesses have to stand by those declarations that they have made. We have to remember and put this in context: we’ve had over 500,000 applications to the scheme; we’ve put out $10 billion worth of money. So these are fractional situations, but everyone who has taken money from the wage subsidy scheme needs to know that our audit teams will be looking across the full sweep of applications, and if anyone believes that perhaps their circumstances are not what they thought they were when they applied, they should get in touch with MSD. Media: Close to 30,000 more people have ended up on the jobseeker benefit in the four weeks since lockdown. Do you think that number would have been considerably higher if it wasn’t for the wage subsidy? And when it runs out, do you expect to see an increase there at the end? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, certainly, in order to access the wage subsidy scheme, employers had to continue the employment of their staff, and what we wanted was this 12- week period to be one of breathing space for people to make their plans for the future. We want as many of those people to stay in work as they possibly can. I actually think the figure of 30,000—while it’s particularly distressing for the individuals involved, when you look at it as a percentage of the workforce and a percentage of the population, it is low compared to the numbers in the wage subsidy scheme, and we’ll continue to work with businesses to support them to keep their employees on board. Jenna. Media: Do you accept that when demand for food parcels has more than tripled, that we have a food poverty crisis in this country? Hon Grant Robertson: Well look, I think what we have is a situation where many New Zealanders have found their outgoings to be ones that they are struggling to meet, and I think for low-income New Zealanders, that’s a particular burden. It’s one of the reasons why we moved quickly to increase benefits. It’s one of the reasons why, from 1 May, you’ll see that the winter energy payment is going up. We have in place the services being provided through our emergency management offices to be able to get food out to those people who need them, and I do recognise for some people this is a very tough time, but the supports are in place for them. Media: Does the Government rely too heavily on charitable organisations to help distribute food parcels—because they say that the demand at this level is unsustainable. Hon Grant Robertson: Well look, I recognise the excellent work that organisations like the Salvation Army and others do to support the most vulnerable in our community. The Government is also stepping up to that as well, and we had the announcement this week of the additional $30 million going in to support the provision of food parcels and other welfare support to those people who need it. We will continue to work with those charities and we’ll continue to make sure that there’s provision of support both through our emergency services but also through the Ministry of Social Development. Media: The Salvation Army says, though, that welfare payments are going to fall well short of what people need to survive. Is that going to be something that you address, and when? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, you know, we’ve had a record while we’ve been in Government of significantly increasing the amount of money that’s available to our most vulnerable people. It’s one of—some of the things we did at the very start of coming into Government was reverse the tax cuts that had been proposed and put in place further support. We’ve lifted benefits, and we continue to work to make sure we lift the incomes of our lowest-income people. Jess. Media: Minister, have you seen the Shop Local campaign, and is that something you’d back when we go into level 3? Hon Grant Robertson: Absolutely—I mean, I think this is a really important time for New Zealanders to think about everyone in their community, and we have a lot of small businesses who haven’t been able to generate any revenue over the last four weeks. Now is the opportunity for us to all support those businesses in our community. I know that a lot of businesses are working out innovative ways of being able to connect the “click and collect”, the “phone and collect” - type situation. So I’d really encourage New Zealanders— as I always do, in fact—to buy local and support the small businesses in your community. Media: What difference could that make if we all focus in like that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think being conscious consumers is a really important part of all of our jobs in normal times, and even more so now. You know, if people make a conscious decision to support a local business—a local retailer, their local food suppliers— that will make a big difference to those people when they’re coming back out of a period of time when they have found it really difficult. Media: Moving to alert level 3 means there’s going to be, you know, greater volume of activity, more movement—all of that. Crown Law advice that’s just come out today says it’s going to make it more difficult to issue those lawful notices and to enforce them, so do you think it’s been made clear enough to the public in terms of level 3, and what is and isn’t required, in order to get that buy-in from the public, bearing in mind that we were two weeks into level 4 and some of that stuff was still being sorted out? Hon Grant Robertson Yeah, again, I want to reiterate the point: I think New Zealanders have done extraordinarily well under level 4, and when you look at those statistics like traffic movement and so on, and when we compare ourselves to the rest of the world, we have gone along and been responsible as part of our work under level 4 that each of us has had to do. As we move to level 3—yes—there will be some adjustments, and it may take a little bit of time for everybody to get used to the rules, but I’m really confident. I trust New Zealanders, that they know how important finishing the job is, and that we’ll all get used to some of the differences in level 3. One thing to make really clear: level 3 is still a very restrictive environment, and while we’re going to see more economic activity, those core principles still remain. Stay in your bubble, stay at home if you can, keep it local—those things are going to be the real difference that we can make in getting on top of this virus once and for all. Tova. Media: Just a question for Dr McElnay: the man who passed away at Rosewood—was he able to have his family with him, and can you clarify exactly what the rules are now for family who have members who are passing away or who are in a critical condition? Dr Caroline McElnay: OK, I actually don’t have that information about this gentleman or whether his family were with him, but we can get that information to you. In terms of visitor policy, that’s a piece of work that we’re working through as we move into level 3. And for people who are confirmed or probable cases of COVID-19 who are in hospital, they do need to have the express permission of the clinician who’s looking after them, and they will have to wear PPE provided by the district health board. So it’s not a blanket no; we will be working with families and with the clinical staff to enable that where possible. Media: Are you satisfied that that’s been consistent to date? Because there have been some examples—haven’t there—where family have been able to visit and other examples where they haven’t. Are you assured that across all DHBs and across all places where there are COVID cases that there’s a consistent policy? Dr Caroline McElnay: I think as we move forward into level 3, it allows us to be a little bit more relaxed, but at the same time to have very tight management for those patients who are COVID-19 - confirmed or probable. But there’s also some other specific situations, such as residential care homes, where, because of the vulnerability of that group, there will continue to be quite tight restrictions—very tight restrictions—on visitor access into those communities. We’ve seen that with the Rosewood cluster and the unfortunate deaths that have occurred there that those are really vulnerable places, so we do need in level 3, as we go forward, and probably in level 2 as well—need to keep a high level of protection. But at the same time, we do want families to be able to be in touch with their loved ones, so we’ll be working through the specific details down the track for level 2. Hon Grant Robertson: We’ll just go to Andrea. Media: From teachers, there’s quite a lot of concern about your increased workload in terms of cleaning, sanitation, online learning, and maintaining the bubble as we move to level 3. Can you offer them any reassurances, and can you just outline what extra support is in place for them? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I know that the Ministry of Education has been working very closely with schools on how they do implement the level 3 conditions. Clearly, it will be different, and needing to manage, for example, online teaching and in-classroom teaching will take a bit of getting used to. I think we all recognise that these are very unique circumstances, and that we all will give a degree of latitude to both teachers and also their students as to how to make sure this works best. Within schools, obviously, they have staff who are responsible for cleaning, and I’m sure principals will be working very closely with those staff—who are so important to all of our wellbeing in this time—to make sure that schools are working as they are intended. I’ve certainly seen reports of principals in their classrooms measuring out the distance between desks, making sure they’re organised where bubbles of children will go. But let’s make sure we just give ourselves—all of us—a bit of slack, including teachers and principals, as this starts to happen next week, so that we can make sure we get it right. Media: In terms of testing— Hon Grant Robertson: Just a follow-up? Yep. Media: Yes—lots more questions, sorry! Can you outline what work’s been undertaken for level 2 on contact sport—whether that will be allowed to continue with social distancing and sanitation of equipment, will that occur, and what will the guidelines be? Hon Grant Robertson: So work is under way as to what may be possible for professional support, particularly, at level 2. Sport New Zealand has been working with the major sporting codes on designing a potential way that that could occur. Clearly, it would have to be cognisant of the rules of level 2—for instance, the fact that we won’t have large, mass gatherings. So if there is to be professional sport played, it will be largely in empty stadia. But also we have to make sure that if there are bubbles created of teams and the people around their teams, that those bubbles are safe. There’s also issues to do with travel to work through as well. So that work is under way right now, and we’ll have more to say about it as it develops. Media: So could we have sport like a Super Rugby bubble and a netball bubble—could those tournaments go ahead this year? Hon Grant Robertson: I know that both rugby and netball are sports that are working on proposals, but I hasten to add all of this has to be done in a way that upholds our public health guidelines, so that’s why that work has to happen. Benedict. Media: What sort of steps do you expect tennis clubs to be taking in terms of tennis being able to restart? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I do think it’s incredibly important that anybody who ends up playing tennis or playing golf in this situation sticks to those core principles—so that is only in your bubble, do not congregate, do make sure that you only use your own equipment. Clubhouses and so on will not be open, so if it’s going to be a situation where you need to book a time, you’ll have to be able to do that online, and I think a number of clubs probably won’t open as a result of that. But, using those core principles, clubs will be able to provide that facility, but it will be limited and it will not be available on public courses. Media: In terms of testing, why don’t you start testing our most vulnerable populations like those at the care facilities, considering we know the spread of the virus in such facilities can happen so swiftly? Dr Caroline McElnay: So we have been working with the district health boards to get more information about the level of COVID-19 disease in our community, and so for the last two weeks there’s been quite a rapid—a ramping up of the number of tests that have been done. We have suggested that they be targeted in to places where we’re seeing cases—or, actually, where we’re not seeing cases—just to give us a better picture. But, going forward, what we’re developing is a much more targeted testing plan to actually give us a much more representative picture of COVID-19 across New Zealand, and that may include some targeted workplace testing, but it will be part of that structured plan. And so that’s the approach that we’re taking at the moment. Media: But specifically for aged-care facilities—I mean, those are our most deadly at the moment—will you test in aged-care facilities? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, testing is already happening in aged-care facilities where there are potential suspect cases, and we’ve been working with the aged - residential care sector to develop policies around how to protect staff and residents there. There can be a danger to just see that testing residents coming into a facility would be the answer, because a test is only an assessment at that one point in time, and there’s a number of other policies and procedures that work really well to reduce any risk, such as any new residents actually being in isolation for 14 days before they come in. The danger is if you test negative on arrival, you might still, if you’ve been exposed, be incubating disease. So it’s about having a broad strategy so that we protect the residents, because we really do want to do that. And we’re seeing, sadly, the impact of COVID-19 in these communities, but also we do want to protect the staff and visitors. So it’s a package that we have to look at, not just one particular aspect. Hon Grant Robertson: Ben—we’ll come to Ben, and then we’ll come back over here. Media: Can I ask: are you keeping data on the nationality of people contracting COVID-19 in New Zealand, and what is it telling you? Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, we are keeping data. That is part of our reporting, and we have—some data is available on our website. That is—in the early days, that reflected that we had a high proportion of non-Māori who were infected with COVID-19. In the early days, we saw a lot of people returning or coming into New Zealand from overseas. The data, as it shows, is not—it’s not really telling us that we’ve got a particular problem in our Māori community or our Pacific community. It is driven a lot by the clusters that we’re seeing and the people who are affected in those clusters. Hon Grant Robertson: Ben, were you asking about nationality or ethnicity? Media: [Inaudible] Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, so I don’t believe, actually, that the data is being broken down by nationality per se. I would suspect the very large bulk of the cases are people with New Zealand passports. Media: Just on the latest death, 60 seems young. Can you detail the sort of underlying health conditions, and do you know if it is the youngest death we’ve had so far? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have the precise age of this gentleman, and the death that was reported yesterday was also someone in their 60s. So with this gentleman, what I can tell you is that he did have existing comorbidities. This was a resident of the Rosewood facility, so although he was in his 60s, he did have significant underlying conditions. Hon Grant Robertson: I also just think that it’s important to note that while many of the deaths that we have seen have been people who are older than that, it is true that around the world, COVID-19 has caused the death of people of every age group, and that’s why it remains really important for all of us to continue to be vigilant. Media: Minister, can I ask about the Cook Islands group who are being repatriated back. How collaboratively have we been working with the Cook Islands Government on this? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has been working collaboratively with all Governments where there are repatriation issues, either New Zealanders coming back to New Zealand or those that are here in New Zealand. I don’t believe I have the information specifically with me about the Cook Islands group, but I’m happy to come back to you, Jess, on that. Media: At the moment, the expectations are they do two weeks of quarantine here, in Auckland, and then two weeks back home. I mean, a month of quarantine—is that necessary? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s really important—I’m not going to speak specifically about the Cook Islands case because I don’t have that information in front of me. But I do think it’s really important that we respect each country’s rules around quarantine. Particularly when we think about our Pacific neighbours, where in many cases they’re trying to limit themselves to no cases, or have had very, very few cases, it’s easy to understand why they want to be very, very protective of that. But I’m sure conversations have been going on between MFAT and the Cook Islands Government on that. But, in the end, we do need to respect that other countries will have their own rules in place. Media: But that’s obviously not best practice, because we hadn’t been following that ourselves—that we’re doing two weeks. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah well, exactly—we’re doing two weeks, but the Cook Islands is also doing two weeks, and so the issue is that each country will have its own rules and its own systems in place. Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, and also I think you have to look at the ability of the health system to respond to cases. In New Zealand, we clearly do have the capacity to do that. I think that’s where it’s for every country to determine what is their ability to manage COVID-19 cases in their own country, and so that is probably influencing the Cook Islands. Media: So do you think that’s fair enough to request someone to stay in quarantine for a month—is that what other countries around the world are doing, too? Dr Caroline McElnay: I think other countries are making different decisions, but, from a health perspective, there is a lot of logic behind it. Media: Minister, are you considering any particular support for mortgage holders, and how concerned are you that if, or when, unemployment rises—particularly after the wage subsidy runs out—mortgage holders might struggle to pay their mortgages, even with deferrals, and that really puts our system in quite a vulnerable position? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I mean it’s important to note in the first instance that the mortgage deferral scheme was set up as a six-month scheme, and I know that the arrangements that have been made between a lot of mortgage holders and their banks are for things like interest-only payments for an extended period of time. Obviously, we’re doing our very best to ensure we limit the number of people who lose their jobs, but clearly in a situation where that does happen, there’s going to a significant shock to people’s income. We’re continuing to work on what we can do to support both household incomes and business-level incomes to be able to sustain themselves through this period. Media: Are you considering any type of targeted support at people who are in that position—so at mortgage holders, particularly? Hon Grant Robertson: I wouldn’t say we’re particularly looking at mortgage holders, but we are continuing—as we have done all the way through this process—to look at what we can do to support New Zealanders to get through this. I think you’ve seen that we’ve been prepared to be flexible and open to different ideas, and we’re continuing to work on what that looks like for both businesses and households. Media: From doctors and dentists—we’re hearing consistently from dentists that they’re having to fund their own PPE, and then that cost is going to have to be passed on to patients. Is that reasonable? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I’ll leave Dr McElnay to talk about the distribution of PPE, but it is important that all of our front-line health workers have access to it. There is no shortage of PPE in New Zealand, and we’ve had this discussion many times in this room about the distribution-related issues. But from our perspective as a Government, we believe that we have purchased, and we are continuing to purchase, the amount of PPE that’s required. But, Dr McElnay, I don’t know if you have anything in particular on dentists. Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have any particular information on dentists. We’re doing a stocktake of the PPE that’s out there, and we’ll know the results of that next week. Hon Grant Robertson: Down the back. [Interruption] Just over here, and we’ll come to you. Media: I want to know what your thinking is around how this helicopter money payment, if it goes ahead, would happen—I mean, would you have to issue bonds for it, and would the Reserve Bank buy those bonds, or the primary or secondary market? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think we’re getting well of ourselves to be talking about that. What we are looking at is a broad economic response that allows us to deal with the here and now, making sure that we keep people in jobs, supporting firms to keep going, then we move into the phase of our recovery, and we look for ways of continuing to support that, and there will come a time, I’m sure, when we’ll need some more stimulus in the economy. There are a range of options available to us as to how we’ll do that; we haven’t made any decisions on that yet. Media: We’ve seen in Northland that the Northland DHB and Māori health providers have ramped up testing in that area. Is the ministry and DHBs confident that you’re getting into all of those sort of smaller, at-risk communities across the country, and have you had any results back from that increased testing in Northland? Dr Caroline McElnay: We’ve seen a significant increase in the number of tests that have been done across the country, and that’s been the specific advice that we’ve given to the district health boards. So there are quite a number of communities that have been reached out to—particularly in Northland and Tai Rāwhiti—and we’re still receiving the results in from many of those particular outreach programmes. But the test results that we report on a daily basis, that’s telling us whether they’ve actually picked up any positive tests, and none of those additional testing in those communities have identified any positive cases. So that’s really good news. Media: And what about the testing for those that are in quarantine in hotels in Auckland—you know, are you making sure that those people that come in at different stages from overseas aren’t mixing with other people in quarantine, and do they get tested before they’re being let out? Dr Caroline McElnay: So as they come in across the border, there’s an assessment made for everyone who is coming across the border, checking for symptoms. Anybody who is symptomatic is put into a different group, and that group is taken to a different facility, and testing is done for those individuals. The other individuals are then going to a separate facility—so we’re separating those who are in quarantine versus those who are in isolation. Those who are symptomatic and test positive, then we manage them as every other COVID-19 case. They are required to stay for the full 14 days. We’re not testing on release, but we have managed that full 14 days in quarantine. Media: Doesn’t that leave you open to sort of cross-contamination, though, if you’ve got people who aren’t symptomatic mixing with other people who aren’t symptomatic but they haven’t had long enough for the symptoms to show? Dr Caroline McElnay: No. They’re all kept in isolation, so they’re all separate— they’re not mixing. Media: Dr McElnay, sorry if I’ve missed this in the past week. Just in regards to the Rosewood cluster, has it been determined how the virus actually got into the facility? Dr Caroline McElnay: That’s still under investigation, and that’s one of the reasons why there’s been widespread testing of staff and patients at Rosewood, and one of the reasons why we’re also—when we get other cases in that situation, also doing further testing. But that’s still under investigation. Media: Well, what degree of confidence do you have in actually being able to pinpoint the index case? Dr Caroline McElnay: It can be challenging in some situations to say exactly who the index case is, but with most of our cases, when we’ve gone back and reviewed the origin of a cluster, we are usually in those cases able to say we know who the person is, say, or we suspect who the index case is. What can be a little bit challenging in the past has been to say how that person acquired their infection. What we’re seeing—and this is really important—is looking over the last two weeks, we’re not seeing situations where we can’t identify how that person acquired their disease. So that’s telling us we would have extremely low levels, if any, of community transmission—unknown cases—out there in the community, and we’ve seen that evidence become much stronger with each day in the last two weeks. Hon Grant Robertson: We’re just going to come down the front, and we’ll come back. Media: The latest ethnicity data we’ve received show that the positive COVID-19 numbers in the Bay of Plenty, and specifically where there’s iwi roadblocks, are really low. Do you believe those iwi roadblocks are actually contributing to keeping those numbers low? Hon Grant Robertson: I think what we—well, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we know that people in their communities really care about keeping their communities safe, and, obviously, the New Zealand Police have been talking with people where some iwi members, for example, have been working to do exactly that. Where that works in such a way that everybody understands what’s happening and works closely with one another, I’m sure it is going to be a help in what’s going on. The really good thing, I think, is that in terms of the level of testing that we’re doing, for example, for Māori, we’re testing Māori at a very high rate relative to the size of the population, and so that’s giving us some real confidence about the data that we’ve got. Media: Can I have just one more? Hon Grant Robertson: One more at the front here. Media: Just one more—with the RSE workers for Pacific Islanders, is there any support for them whose visas have expired or their businesses can’t support them any more? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, certainly, I know that in the early days, the ability of workers to be able to, for instance, transfer from one particular type of work they were doing to another was being facilitated, and, you know, we are at the point in the season where we do need workers to be working on a number of our orchards and kiwifruit vines, so that work was being facilitated at the beginning. In terms of people who are in that situation who are migrant workers who may not be in work now, all of the services that our civil defence and emergency management are providing in those emergency settings are available to those people. Media: There have today been some renewed calls for Government to increase protections for commercial tenants, including a six-month ban on lease cancellations, debt recovery action by landlords—is that something at all you’re considering? If not, what’s your message? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, so we already have made some changes to the rules around this to ensure that we can’t have forced evictions of peoples up to 30 days, and that, really, was designed in order to create a much more orderly conversation between tenants and landlords. It’s very important to remember that a very large number of the leases that operate at the moment in commercial settings have a clause in them that if a tenant isn’t able to occupy, there can be and there should be rent remission, and I know that that is happening in a lot of places. We’re continuing to look at what other measures we can do to continue to support the relationships between tenants and landlords, but we, once again, urge parties to sit down together and come to a reasonable solution. Jenna. Media: How concerned are you about people not getting the healthcare they need, including dental work, during levels 4 and 3? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I’ll let Dr McElnay respond to this as well, but you’ve heard the consistent message on this stage from both the Prime Minister and Dr Bloomfield that people should be seeking medical care if they need it at this time. It’s urgent that people don’t allow things to fester; that they don’t allow themselves to get really, really unwell. Our medical services are still available, our health services are still available to people, and we strongly encourage them to use them. Dr McElnay, do you have anything to add? Dr Caroline McElnay: Nothing, really, to add to that. As we move forward into level 3, then we’ll start to see more of those health facilities opening up, but we still have to really manage the potential risk from COVID-19. Media: Do you think that MFAT’s doing enough to help Kiwis get home? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, MFAT staff all around the world have been working incredibly hard, and you’ll be aware that various repatriation flights continue to be worked on and to come back. The latest ones I know are around nine New Zealanders travelling from Bangladesh who were on a flight that was either due in late last night or early this morning, and we continue to work on significant cases right around the world. Media: Specifically, Thailand’s closed its land borders. When will New Zealanders stuck in Cambodia and Laos be able to get home? Hon Grant Robertson: I’m just looking to see in the notes that I’ve been given here whether or not there’s anything on Cambodia and Laos. I do know that New Zealanders in Thailand—the embassy there is continuing to work closely on what may be possible. So if we’ve got anything more to report on that, we will. Media: But people can’t get across the borders into Thailand. Hon Grant Robertson: Look, there were always—and we’ve said from the beginning—going to be significant issues for the small pockets of New Zealanders who find themselves in places that are both difficult to get into and difficult to get out of. We strongly encourage those people to register with MFAT, and that means that we can start to apply the consular support that is available. But I think you’ll understand that given the different circumstances in different countries, we’ve just got to work this through. You’ve seen a regular number of repatriation flights, and I know MFAT’s working hard on those. I’ll do Jo, and then Jenna. Media: How realistic is this idea of a trans-Tasman bubble, and what level is the work at? Is it just a conversation that’s going on between the Prime Ministers or their officials, or is border enforcement, airports—are they actually having serious conversations about how they would do this? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, look, I think it’s very early days, is what I would say. We all know as New Zealanders that one of the things that’s allowed us to be in the strong position we are in terms of getting on top of this virus are our border restrictions, and the Prime Minister has been clear that those border restrictions will be with us for some time to come. The good news is that both New Zealand and Australia are doing well in terms of fighting the virus, and so at some time in the future it may be possible, but I don’t think people should get ahead of themselves. Those discussions are at an early level. Media: And would you ever do it at like a state by state level? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think we have to work that through. Clearly, in Australia there are different responses in different states, but it is very important for us that we continue to maintain the integrity of our border. It has been one of the best things we have done in fighting this virus, and I, along with all New Zealanders, want us to get to the point when we can see some movement of people across our borders and start those relationships with Australia again. But it will take some time for us to get there. Media: Just on the Attorney-General’s Cabinet paper released today, how likely is it that a special piece of COVID-19 legislation might be put in place for alert level 2? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh look, there are issues that are being worked through at the moment by the Attorney-General at each stage of our movement through the framework. You can imagine that Crown Law, who advised the Attorney-General, looked very, very closely at what is required from a legal standpoint for us to be able to undertake the activities we do. Clearly, as we move through the levels, we change from the influence of a pandemic notice and then what happens after that. So that’s the work that’s underway right now with Crown Law. Media: Do you have a sense of whether the national state of emergency may still apply into alert level 2, or would the— Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I haven’t got advice on that at this point in time. But I do know, as I say, that as we move through the alert levels, there will obviously be different forms of regulation that are required, and whether or not there needs to be extensions of both the pandemic notice and the state of emergency are the very issues that Crown Law that is advising the Attorney-General on. I’ll do Benedict and then Andrea, and then come back. Media: Do you believe that the job seeker figures that were put out today—do you believe they capture the full number of job losses that have occurred because of coronavirus? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I’m quite sure that people who have found themselves in the situation where they’ve lost their job will seek the assistance that’s available to them, and so I think it’s a sign that there have been a number of job losses, but it’s also a sign that, relatively speaking to the working the working-age population, it is a smaller number than you’re seeing in a lot of other countries. Media: But people who have partners that still earn and, you know, who haven’t lost their jobs might still earn good money—they can’t apply, can they? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it depends on the circumstances of those partners, but also there is other support available such as the accommodation supplement and so on. To a wider point, Benedict, of what you’re asking, clearly, we won’t understand the full impact of COVID-19 on unemployment or on the economy more generally until some months in the future. What we do know is we’ve put in place the kind of safety net that’s allowed 1.6 million New Zealanders to stay attached to their employer and to get the support they need and stay in a job, and we’re going to continue to work on that. Andrea. Media: On child poverty, that was obviously a big focus of your Government, are you worried that any of the gains that you made are will now backslide, and are you going to have to adjust and shift those targets that you’ve set out? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, the targets are in law, so I don’t think there will be much changing of them. But the important thing for us is that we don’t allow inequality to grow as a result of this crisis, and the Government’s focus on child poverty will not waiver. We will have to redouble our efforts, and I mentioned before, when I was talking about the long-term issues that we need to face up to in the economy, one of those is the fact we’ve persistent inequality in New Zealand. We’ve made big strides to address that, and we’re going to have to continue to support it. I have no doubt, if you look at the history of these kinds of major disruptions to the economy, it is people on the lowest incomes who get affected the most. We’re very conscious of that, and we’re continuing to work to make sure we can support those people. Media: So you might miss those targets, then? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, look, it’s far too early to even make a judgment on that. We’ll just take a couple more. Media: Minister, is it ever OK to joke about domestic violence? Hon Grant Robertson: I beg your pardon? Sorry, Jenna, I actually just didn’t hear you. Media: Is it ever OK to joke about domestic violence? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it’s certainly not something that I would do, and I think you might be referring to a brief interchange that I saw online last night from the select committee—is that what you’re referring to? Yeah, look, I mean for me, no—I think domestic violence is a scourge in our society. I don’t have all of the circumstances that led up to or came after that, but I don’t think any New Zealander should take domestic violence lightly. Ben. Media: Minister, 10 days ago, you published a number of Treasury scenarios—they were not forecasts; they were scenarios—and a couple of those were baseline things that were plainly not going to happen because it didn’t reflect what was actually being done. When will you publish actual forecasts, or your belief or understanding on where the economy is tracking? Hon Grant Robertson: That will be in the Budget, in three weeks’ time. Media: So no information for [Inaudible] four weeks? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, no, the scenarios are what they are, and you’re getting a weekly economic update from the Treasury which provides a host of different information. But in terms of the dedicated forecasts, that will be in the Budget. Last one. Media: What are you planning to do to get banks to loosen their lending criteria around these loans that are guaranteed by the Government? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, I mean banks have given out somewhere between $5 billion and $6 billion worth of extra loans over the last few weeks, which is a very large amount of money. The Government-backed loan guarantee scheme was designed to be able to make sure that particularly small and medium enterprises could get access to the credit that they needed. That scheme is only really just fully underway now, and we’re continuing to work with the banks to make sure that that is being promoted and provided and put on offer to the people who need it. And I’d just reiterate something I’ve said a couple of times, which is that if you were a customer who went to a bank and a few weeks ago perhaps didn’t get the answer you were looking for, go back now, because that scheme is fully operational. I’ll just take Jo and then we’ll— Media: Last one for Dr McElnay, actually—sorry. Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t want another one, Jo, so that’s all right! Media: Just on contact tracing, are the Government—or Ministry of Health, more so— going to audit the system again before going to level 3 on Tuesday? Dr Caroline McElnay: We have already this week been doing some audits, updates, outside of the ministry, out at DHB level, and so that will add to the information that we’ve got about the performance of the system. Hon Grant Robertson: And you’ll be aware too that the Minister of Health has established the oversight committee as well, so that’s getting underway. So I think you’ll find that the attention of both the Ministry of Health and of the Government will be very closely on contact tracing in coming days and weeks. Thanks, everyone. Enjoy your weekend. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 24 April
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference.
The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference here. Transcript of daily media conference 29 April 2020
Home Updates Transcript of daily media conference 29 April 2020 --- Section Separator --- PM : Tena koutou katoa. Good afternoon. Welcome to day two of alert level 3. It may surprise some viewers today to see me here alongside Dr Bloomfield, because you will have heard me say that, recently, it was set down to be our last, for the foreseeable future, press conference together. But you will also have heard me repeatedly say that life at level 3 is very similar to life at level 4, and so we decided to extend that mantra into the way that we are treating it with our press conferences. So after some feedback, you will find us here together till the remainder of level 3 concludes, for the most part, with ongoing appearances from other Ministers and other agencies as part of the response to COVID-19. I’ll hand over, though, now for the health update from Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today, I have two new COVID-19 cases to report. One is a new confirmed case that is in quarantine in Auckland, associated with international travel, and one is a probable case that is associated with an existing case. That is a close contact of an existing case. In addition to this, we have also reclassified a previous probable case as confirmed. This is an historic one. It actually dates from earlier in April, and it’s just been updated in our EpiSurv database as confirmed. So therefore, whilst the net increase today was two cases, our new total confirmed cases is 1,126, and for probable cases it is 348, which is the same as yesterday. Our total combined confirmed and probable cases is therefore 1,474. We report the confirmed case number to WHO and will continue to do so—that is the 1,126. Pleased to say no additional deaths to report today. We have six people in hospital, none of whom are in intensive care. Yesterday, 2,637 tests were completed, and our combined total to date is 128,073 tests. Of our cases, 1,229 are reported as recovered. That’s an increase of 15 on yesterday and now comprises 83 percent of all cases. There remain 16 significant clusters—no change from yesterday. A couple of words from me about alert level 3—as the Prime Minister said, now two days old. It’s important that we keep reinforcing the key messages around expectations and how we need to all behave during alert level 3. It’s crucial we stay vigilant and, in particular, maintain the guidelines around physical distancing, keeping within bubbles, good hand hygiene, and not going out if unwell. As commercial activity resumes, this applies to businesses and retailers who are now interacting in a contactless way with providers. Yesterday, like me, you will have seen some aspects of level 3 were a little bit like the first day back after the summer holidays, and also we were all getting used to a new way of doing things. I think for the most part businesses got that right. However, we did see some pictures of quite large groups of people congregating outside one or two places. I am sure those businesses involved will be working on their processes today to ensure that any customers waiting to pick up goods or services can maintain physical distancing. That will be imperative in terms of our ability to provide confidence to the Government that we are ready to move down alert levels in due course. As I said yesterday, we have a new section 70 notice that does include provisions to close non-compliant premises. However, I think yesterday would be a good example of everybody settling into a new regime, and for the most part that worked well, but just ironing out some small matters that do need to be ironed out quickly. So overall, the message is the same: stay home, save lives—and that’s our number one rule for alert level 3. If you need medical attention, ring Healthline, ring your GP, or if it’s an emergency, dial 111. If you have any respiratory symptoms, please do contact Healthline or your GP and talk about getting a COVID-19 test. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. I want to start by reminding people, in the same way that Dr Bloomfield has, that we are not out of the woods yet. While our case numbers remain low, we will still have cases, and we have seen with our large clusters in New Zealand that it only takes one person to potentially affect many. With that in mind, we continue to take a firm stance with the enforcement of rules at level 3. This is our waiting room, and so we need to make sure that we’re vigilant in the way that we treat it. The rules are ultimately in place for a reason, and that reason is to keep us safe but to also move us as quickly as we can into other alert levels. Police recorded 104 breaches in the first 18 hours of alert level 3. The vast majority of these resulted in warnings, but 21 people have been prosecuted and 71 warnings issued. In addition, 742 complaints of businesses not complying with level 3 rules were made. Most related, though, interestingly—most related—to a lack of social distancing and business operating practices. MBIE, MPI, and other agencies will be following up on a further proportion of these complaints. Agencies have been tasked in particular cases, where they’ve triaged—61 cases in particular are being followed up on. So while our preference is to educate and engage with businesses to ensure they’re operating within the rules, we will not hesitate to take firmer measures if required. I asked a couple of questions this morning, particularly of some of the images I’ve seen of areas—and there were a couple of persistent photos that lingered around from some places in particular—and I’ve been told that MBIE and Health have actively reached out to some of those businesses to make sure that they are working with them on the ground to improve their practices to stop congregation at their place of business. I’ll also update you today on early figures we have to hand on school and ECE attendance on the first day back today. Data from 10.30 a.m. this morning shows that 7,713 children attending an early learning service and 11,846 attending a school. This represents 4 percent attendance at ECE and 1 percent attendance in schools—keeping in mind, though, for those numbers, we’ve had reporting from 37 percent of early learning services and 55 percent of schools. So these numbers will be updated, but early indications are that New Zealanders continue to take our lockdown at level 3 very seriously, that there remains an ongoing commitment to cementing what we’ve done and, therefore, learning and working from home if that’s possible. I do want to thank everyone who’s doing that, though. I know distance learning and having children at home while you’re working can be very hard, but these early numbers demonstrate the ongoing commitment people are showing and New Zealand’s ongoing commitment to not seeing a second wave of infection in New Zealand. Finally, I want to talk about New Zealand’s small businesses, many of whom will now be back at work but some who will not. We have already put in place the wage subsidy scheme to help with what is usually a firm’s largest cost—wages—and today I can share news of further work that we are doing to help with commercial rents. As many of you will know, we have already agreed to push out deadlines on lease terminations when someone moves into arrears, but it is clear that this alone would not be enough for many businesses. We need to provide more reassurance, as much as we’re able to within the law. Although we cannot currently impose a commercial rent reduction—you’ve heard me speak to that a few times here—we have asked commercial tenants and landlords to work together to reach a fair agreement. However, some parties, on both sides of the contract, appear unwilling to renegotiate payment terms, with officials advising that some landlords are demanding full rent from tenants who have been unable to trade for several weeks and cannot afford it, while resource tenants have written to landlords declaring that they refuse to pay any rent for several months. Minister Little discussed options with other Ministers at Cabinet committee this morning. I can confirm that we are actively working on measures under which parties to a commercial lease would be expected to consider rent concessions in whole or in part for a period where the response to COVID-19 has had a material impact on business. We’ve heard the call for extra support from small business over and above that already provided through the wage subsidy and tax measures, and we are working actively to resolve that. So in principle, we have supported the work Minister Little is doing. We expect papers to come shortly, and as soon as those final decisions and work has been completed by the Ministry of Justice, we’ll be sharing it. I do want to acknowledge that something similar has been worked up in Australia. That code of conduct, as I understand, still hasn’t been legislated; that needs to happen at a state level. So we’re working actively, looking at some of the similarities of what they’ve done here and what will be workable under our property Act in New Zealand. Finally, it was my privilege during alert level 4 lockdown to thank all of our essential workers and others, who have done an amazing job. Now, at alert level 3, I’m receiving many, many examples of businesses using good old Kiwi ingenuity to open up at level 3 with contactless transactions. Today, I want to highlight a couple of examples from what I know will be the missed food and beverage sector. Gizzy Local, an events website, has collated in one place nearly 30 food businesses that Gisborne locals can now access, noting how to order and how to collect. Some of you will have seen coverage of the Auckland coffee shop extending a plank of wood from which to serve up their flat whites at an appropriate distance. I do want to say good on everyone who is working so hard to innovate, keep their customers safe, but get also their staff back to work. It’s incredible to see. I know it makes people feel very proud, given the difficult circumstances people are operating under. OK, we’re happy to take your questions. Media :  Why did Cabinet reject advice from the Ministry of Health to close down the borders, including to returning New Zealand citizens? PM : Yes, you will have heard the Deputy Prime Minister point out that Health did suggest closing our borders entirely. Now, you’ll remember we did close them off to foreign nationals, but we did not consider that it would ever be OK to stop New Zealanders coming home. You’ll struggle to find countries in the world that would make a move like that. But we simply would not tolerate New Zealanders not having the option to return to the safety of New Zealand, their home. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what was the rationale behind the ministry’s call on this? Why did you take this to Cabinet in the first place? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So if you think about our elimination goal, there are two parts to it: keep it out and stamp it out. As we were moving very quickly from alert level 2 and 3 and into 4, we felt that until we had a really secure process in place—this was based on the position as we were providing the advice—for people to come across the border to actually isolate or quarantine them or be assured about the fact that they didn’t have intention, then we should at least temporarily close the border until we had that process in place. Cabinet balanced our advice up with all the advice they had, and, of course, with that came the instruction and the expectation that we would get that process in place very promptly. So that was the response to help mitigate that risk. PM : I think it’s totally understandable under the circumstances, the Ministry of Health taking that position. Of course, the Ministry of Health wasn’t required to weigh up our obligations through law to our own citizens. We did have to weigh that up. The way that we could deal with both obligations was actually to set up the kind of quarantine that we have now at the border, which is working well. Media : During that time, most of our cases were linked to international travel. Are you disappointed Cabinet went against that advice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not in the slightest bit, and you can see that not only was the decision to go into lockdown, alert level 4, made at the right time but that the additional measures we’ve been able to put in place to manage the border and prevent further cases coming in during that lockdown period has paid off, and that’s why now we are seeing any new cases coming across the border are, in fact, already in quarantine, and our overall low numbers reflect the fact that the overall approach was successful. Media : Would you have liked to see that quarantine, that mandatory quarantine, brought up sooner, though, considering that your initial advice was for a total shut down of the borders? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, no, I don’t, actually. I think we’ve been successful, and, as I say, Cabinet’s decision was made with the expectation that we would manage the risk at the border, and I feel we have done that successfully, and that is part of our ongoing keep it out, stamp it out approach. PM : I do just want to reinforce that you’ll be hard pressed to find many countries in the world who took an extraordinary stance to exclude their own citizens from returning back to the one place they have a legal right to be. It would have been extraordinary for the Government to make a decision to strand New Zealanders and give them no ability to be able to come home. It could have meant that they were stuck illegally in other places, and it could have meant they could be stuck unsafely in other places, and we just couldn’t entertain that. Equally, we needed to keep New Zealanders safe when they did return. Media : How quickly was that recommendation dismissed, then, given the basis? PM : It was never entertained, in the same way that almost no country in the world has entertained not allowing citizens to come home. It is an extraordinary thing to deem someone stateless, but if you tell someone that they cannot return home, that’s essentially what you’re doing. So there are international obligations that we have to consider with extraordinary decisions like that. Media : Under what legal basis, then, did the Ministry of Health— PM : They don’t have to consider those kinds of things. Media : Fundamental human rights? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we were giving our advice from a public health perspective. As I say, the approach was really clear: keep it out, stamp it out. It was clear at that point in time that most of our new cases were still coming in across the border, so we wanted Cabinet to understand from a public health perspective, if we were to mitigate that risk of cases coming in across the border, ideally we would close the border for a period. Cabinet weighed up the full range of matters, including, of course, other legal obligations, in making their decision. PM : Look, it’s not at all unusual. Ministries focus on their own obligations and their own focus. It wouldn’t have been normal for a public health response to factor in the kinds of things that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would. Media : Shouldn’t the Ministry of Health also weigh up human rights, though, when making recommendations to the Government? PM : We always make sure that within every decision that we make, we do have human rights considerations. That’s explicit in every paper we consider. It does not have to be generated by the Ministry of Health, though. It is always a consideration, though. Media : Dr Bloomfield, did you recommend a specific period for how long the border should remain closed for? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, we didn’t, actually, and I don’t recall the details. But what I will say is that the whole level 4 lockdown response was predicated on us managing the risk of new cases coming across the border and of breaking the chain of transmission in our communities here. We’ve been successful on both counts—that’s why we’re now in alert level 3. Media : What about a political lens on this decision, though, from the Ministry of Health? Shouldn’t the health Minister have realised that this was a breach of human rights and potentially suggested that instead of it going to Cabinet? PM : No. Actually, the Minister of Health—or, indeed, any Minister—doesn’t necessarily vet and curtail the advice of their ministry that’s made available to us, in the same way that the Minister of Finance won’t always agree with Treasury’s view. That’s still able to be put to us for full consideration. So they don’t filter the advice that comes through. So we were able to see what the view of the Ministry of Health was, and then it’s our job to weigh that up against all of the other legal considerations that we must have. Media : What were the dates of this Cabinet meeting? PM : I would—the periods of time have somewhat merged together for me! I can get you a date for that. My recollection—it was pre-level 4, is my recollection. Out of interest, we now have 3,241 in managed isolation or quarantine, and we’ve had roughly, give or take, about 25 people who have tested positive for COVID whilst they’ve been in our quarantine or isolation facilities, so it is proving its worth in stopping the spread of COVID. Media : Prime Minister, on social distancing, there’s a video online of a Burger Fuel outlet in Auckland. Have you seen that, and what’s your message for businesses who want to operate but, obviously, they’re not getting social distancing right? PM : I believe I’ve seen the same. I’ve seen still images rather than a video, and that caused me enough concern. I saw multiple angles of it. So it caught the attention of members of the public, which tells me that, by and large, people absolutely know what we need to be doing at level 3, but clearly that wasn’t happening in this scenario. We have had confirmation, though, from officials this morning that they have been directly in contact, I’m told, with the head office of that operation in order to ensure they understand their obligations and that they will manage their ongoing trade from here on, because they certainly didn’t fulfil those obligations last night. Media : On your phone call with the Queen last night, what was the purpose of that phone call and what did you discuss? PM : So as I mentioned, we received a message several days ago now, just suggesting that Her Majesty was eager to touch base and hear how New Zealand was doing under the circumstances of the global pandemic. So while it’s not general practice to comment to any detailed degree on the conversation, what I came away with was a very genuine and strong sense that Her Majesty is really interested in how we’re doing and was heartened to hear that we’re doing OK. Media : Prime Minister, is it helpful for the Foreign Minister to share advice that was rejected by Cabinet, seemingly with a political bent to prove that the Government has not been captured by the health ministry? PM : We work on proactive release, and so this is information that would have been public anyway, and will be. Media : New Zealanders who are returning home to be with dying relatives are still being subject to that 14-day quarantine. Under those circumstances, would there be grounds for an exception? PM : I’ve heard that this might be based on an actual case, so I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, thanks, Prime Minister. So, look, there is a process for seeking an exemption or an exception for those people coming into the country. They are granted under very limited circumstances. Clearly, as I’ve said, the border remains and managing the risk at the border remains a really important part of both our alert level 4 and alert level 3 stance. So at the moment, there is an exception process. People can apply, and they do. Obviously, where circumstances are where there is a dying relative, we take a very compassionate look at that, but we also have to weigh that up against the overall approach to protect all New Zealanders. I have asked the team, as we start to prepare for a move to alert level 2, to revisit that as well and just see what other things could be put in place to help manage that risk. Media : Because the people that we’ve spoken to have described the process as slow and unwieldy in terms of making that application. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’m sorry if that was their experience, and I’ll take that feedback back. Obviously, we recognise the urgency of these sorts of decisions, so I’ll make sure that the process is expeditious and fair. PM : This is incredibly difficult no matter what way you look at it, but you’ll also see from the statistics we’ve provided that albeit a small number, we are still seeing COVID cases coming in from international travel. We have to make sure that in allowing and enabling people to see family members they’re desperate to see, that we don’t have double tragedies. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what measures should food delivery drivers be taking? Are you concerned that they could potentially be a vector by going from restaurants, cafes, into people’s homes and workplaces? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, they could potentially, and therefore it’s very important they’ve got both the understanding of what hygiene measures they need to take, including regular use of hand gels, would be the most practical, wearing a mask if needs be. However, importantly, also their employer or the place they are servicing needs to also be facilitating that for them. It is very important, but we have had experience of this through alert level 4 with couriers operating at quite high volumes during alert level 4 to get goods and services out there. So I think people understand what the expectations are, and it’s very important that they abide by them. Media : Would you recommend that they wear PPE masks? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not specifically. They shouldn’t need a mask if they are not symptomatic—in which case they shouldn’t be going to work—and if they’re not having face-to-face contact with them, and that’s the whole point of the delivery, is they need to be contactless. The key thing is the regular handwashing and good hygiene within their vehicles. Media : Is there an update on those New Zealanders returning from overseas sharing some of the costs of quarantine? PM : I have asked for another paper to come back to Cabinet. One of the things that we’ve been mindful is we’re trying to reach a point where, actually, we’re bringing back all those who are caught up in the circumstances of COVID-19, through no fault of their own, and where we’re getting into a point where there is more deliberate decision-making, because then people know they’re going to encounter these costs in particular. So we have asked officials to provide us extra advice so we can work through what a cost recovery regime will look like in the future. Media : Prime Minister, Minister Sepuloni spoke of unemployment yesterday. She confirmed that unemployment will be likely to go up post-COVID, which isn’t a surprise, but there is concern within some Māori communities that life after COVID will just continue to extend that gap between the rich and the poor. What will you be doing to make sure that doesn’t happen? PM : You will have heard me say from this podium before that this has to be an opportunity for us to finally close the inequities that we have in New Zealand and that we’ve had for a persistent amount of time. Now, whether or not it’s the guidance that see from the State Services Commission saying today to exercise wage restraint for those on higher incomes but to consider the wage situation of those on lower incomes, or whether it’s the work that we’re proactively doing to redeploy to drive a high-wage economy to see that we don’t replace those industries that traditionally have had lower wages with more lower wages. This is an opportunity and we need to use it. Media : So your expectation is, then, Prime Minister, that we look forward three months, six months, one year, two years—that that gap will be less as opposed to going wider? PM : Our goal as a Government has always been to reduce inequalities. That is now our focus, now more than ever. Media : On 23 March, you told us that we needed to stay home and save lives—the day that you announced you the lockdown—stay home, save lives, or tens of thousands of New Zealanders could die. Was it a surprise to you, then, that in the immediate wake of that advice, two days later, on the day of the lockdown, your health Minister hired a moving company and moved house? PM : No. I was aware that the Minister, before lockdown, had moved home—before lockdown. This was something that he completed, a sale, before New Zealand even had a COVID case. Media : The day that he moved was the day that we went into lockdown. What do you say to all New Zealanders who deferred their settlement or didn’t move into their new homes or were given warnings by police for trying to move house in level 3 or level 4? PM : My message is very, very simple. I will not hesitate to act when it comes to a Minister who I believe warrants my action against them, and you’ve already seen that. In this case, I do not believe that is the case, based on what I have been advised. Media : But that two days that we were in level 3, that was just basically so the lockdown door wasn’t slammed in our face, wasn’t it? It wasn’t to try and sneak through a kind of moving date, as the Minister did, on the day that we went into lockdown. PM : Again, and that’s not how I would characterise things. For me, I am very clear: you have already seen that if I believe it’s warranted for a Minister to be severely reprimanded, for demotion to occur, I will not hesitate on that. But based on the information I’ve received, I do not believe that is warranted in this case. Media : So you think it’s fine to move house on the day that the country went into lockdown? Because that wasn’t the advice that your ministries were giving. PM : Again, I’ve already shared with you my exact principle in dealing with these kinds of situations. You’ll have already seen I won’t hesitate to act if that is what is required, but based on the information I have, that is not what is required here. Media : What do you make of suggestions in the past few days, including at select committee by submitters today, that New Zealand was unprepared for a pandemic, in part due to under-investment in public health and the fragmentation of those functions across the health sector? PM : Yeah, so two comments I would make. Firstly, it is very difficult for the world to have actually been well prepared for what has become a one-in-100-year global pandemic, and I think you’ll see, to varying degrees, that has been manifest for all of us. But when it comes to actually public health, I would agree that we do need to rebuild our health system, and in particular the investment in public health. That is something that I would have said even before COVID-19, and it was part of this Government’s agenda. But what we’re seeing is some specific elements of public health that did need that extra investment and modernisation. Previously, there probably hasn’t been the reason for PHUs, who have operated separately, to necessarily have the national footing that we now see as so, so necessary—dealing with TB, dealing with rheumatic fever. We may well have had that advice post-measles, but we’re still in the aftermath of working through that to have made that determination. But the fact we’ve managed to change our footing within a month I think demonstrates that we can be agile. Media : Over a number of years now, you’ve told us, when we’ve asked about what happened in Cabinet, that you don’t discuss what happens in Cabinet. So what changed today that made the Deputy Prime Minister come up and so overtly talk about something so substantial that happened in Cabinet? What’s the difference? PM : Jason, you’ll find that I usually say that when you’re fishing. Media : Dr Bloomfield, there’s a call from the primary teachers union for teachers to be made a priority group for flu jabs. Is that in the pipeline? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, actually, now any New Zealander can get a flu jab, so from this week it’s been opened up not just to those vulnerable groups that are publicly funded but any New Zealander, including our school teachers, can get a jab. It sounds like, from the number of students who are at school, there might be opportunity to do that. I recognise teachers are actually doing a lot of teaching online still for all those students at home. But all New Zealanders are now able to get a flu jab, and I would encourage them to do so. PM : OK, last couple. Media : [ Inaudible ] we saw another case linked to it yesterday, so how are we still seeing cases— PM : Historic, yeah. Media : —linked to it so far along in the time line? PM : An old one. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, so just a comment on the case yesterday. This was someone who had only been tested in the last few days but had actually been symptomatic earlier in April. So one of the things we’re doing is actually having a really good look at that cluster, because I think it can tell us a lot about the transmission of this virus in a school group, either between students or between teachers and students, between teachers and teachers, and also within family settings. So we’re looking to do a study there to see what was the pattern of infection, because I think it will inform us, and, in fact, will inform the scientific body of knowledge globally about just how to manage these situations. PM : It tells us that there’s a long tail to COVID, though, when you have that length of time and still someone testing positive. Dr Ashley Bloomfield Yes, we’ve seen this with other clusters as well, including the Bluff one. Media : [ Inaudible ] random testing is taking place this week, if any, and where it’s happening, and if we’re making the most of our increased capacity for testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so the priority for testing through alert level 3 remains, first of all, finding any symptomatic people—so case finding. Secondly, we’ve asked all the district health boards to have a very planned approach to not random testing but testing specific populations and settings, including in healthcare settings, aged residential care, settings where there are essential workers, like supermarkets that might have exposure to members of the public quite frequently. So that’s part of our, what I would call, surveillance testing and that’s moving into a much more systematic approach. As we move to alert level 2, we will do that in a way that is informed by epidemiological advice around what sampling frames we need to make sure we are testing sufficient New Zealanders in different regions and from different ethnic groups, to get a really clear picture of whether there is any underlying infection there that we’re not detecting through case finding. Media : Is there any details [ Inaudible ] Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, we can provide some. It’s happening in different—there are some details back at the ministry about what different DHBs are doing, and some of them have been putting this up on their website. So we’ll talk with them about making available on their websites an outline of what testing they are planning over this next couple of weeks. PM : We can probably bring you an update tomorrow as well, yeah. Media : Prime Minister, should there be a limit on the number of people from a bubble that can collect takeaway food? Because in some of the images, there’s groups of three or four people, presumably from the same bubble, and that means there’s less space for everyone else to socially distance. PM : Yeah, I take your point. I mean, we haven’t put out that same level of specificity, but it’s fair to say the guidelines that we put out at level 4 around limiting people’s movements, limiting being out and about, limiting being in the supermarket—they all still apply. So again, we just want people to stick to those same principles now, even though you have the joy of being able to queue, which obviously has become a social activity for some bubbles. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what have the testing results been for the residents at a Hawke’s Bay holiday park where one resident tested positive for the virus? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have the final results, because most of those swabs were taken yesterday, but if they’re all back, we’ll make it available. What I can say is of all the tests done yesterday, which would have included some of those processed and perhaps all of them, none of those were positive, but we can confirm that. Media : Is it concerning that two staff members from the same rest home have now tested positive despite having no symptoms? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, actually, we’ve seen this in other aged residential care facilities, and over the last two weeks we have changed our approach nationally to, if we do get a case in a facility, testing all residents and staff regardless of symptoms. That’s now an embedded part of our routine approach to infections in these facilities. PM : As is the testing protocols for asymptomatic testing of close contacts when someone is an essential worker in a place where there is high contact with people. So asymptomatic testing is happening under those scenarios. Media : Just on midwives quickly, why are midwives’ extra costs still not being funded, and why hasn’t Cabinet signed off on the Cabinet document that would fund them? PM : So we have said that we do want to cover off legitimate costs for health practitioners for COVID-19, and we’re still in the process of working through what the detail of some of that would imply, and that includes for maternity services. I haven’t got a time line for you, but I think it’s under active consideration by the Ministry of Health at the moment. Media : What are your thoughts on David Clark going forward? Is his job safe as health Minister, or, as we come out of lockdown, is it something you’ll be reviewing? PM : He remains as our health Minister. I know I’ve had those ongoing questions from time to time, but I can tell you that you can put a hypothetical and have any Minister’s name in there, around their ongoing future, and my answer to this will be that until I say otherwise, people are in their jobs. But I expect everyone to maintain standards throughout their role as Ministers, and I give no Minister guarantees about anyone’s future, because we all have to maintain standards all the way through our practice in these roles. Media : Professor Gorman told the Epidemic Response Committee this morning that our borders—we should have had really strict border measures in the middle of February. Was that ever considered? And he also said that the high-trust, sort of, isolation model was flawed and it should have been a low-trust model, given what he’d observed in other countries like Taiwan, where if people even turned their phones off, they were checked on immediately. PM : Yeah, I don’t think—oh, sorry, you didn’t mean that for me. Media : Oh, no, it’s for both of you. PM : How about I have a go first and then I’ll hand over. Well, first thing I would say is that I wouldn’t have called it simply a high-trust model. There were checks in place. We did have the police involved. We had Healthline involved. But it became very clear to us that not only did we need a more rigorous approach; we needed to stop household transmission. So at a point where we were able to manage a system where everyone was quarantined, keeping in mind we had tens of thousands of people returning in those early days, we moved to that. On the question of timeliness, New Zealand, 20 days after our first case, closed our borders to foreign travellers. Now, that made us amongst the first in the world to have done that. So I think that was a significant move by us, and we did it very, very early on in our COVID journey. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just a follow up comment on that. I think you have to live life forward, but you understand it looking back. At the time, we were making decisions, as the Prime Minister said, well before other countries were, based on the same information. I think based on the information we had—remembering that when we stood up our National Health Coordination Centre, there were less than 300 cases globally of this disease, and five deaths—we were incredibly responsive to what we saw emerging, and responded. As I’ve said a number of times, we were constantly thinking “What do we need to do in two weeks’ time?”, and then do it today. So I think the success of our approach is evident in the position we find ourselves today, which is not unique, but we are amongst a very small number of countries in this very fortunate position, that all New Zealanders have put us in, where we now have choices about what steps we take next. PM : I’ll just take a last couple. Media : Can I follow with that? PM : Sure, Derek. Last one. Media : He just said that the fact that we didn’t have—obviously, the logistics to set that up at the border is huge— PM : Capacity. We’ve talked about that. Media : Yeah, but he said the fact that we couldn’t do that in mid-February was a reflection of how under-resourced we were in our pandemic plan and that showed that we were basically caught with our pants down. PM : Well, I would disagree with that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I mean, the proof’s in the pudding, isn’t it? I think for an under-prepared or ill-prepared country, we’ve done remarkably well, and I don’t think we were ill-prepared. We have got a very comprehensive plan. We responded very promptly, and that was not just the health effort; that was an all-of-Government effort right from day one. I think the evidence is in the position we find ourselves now. PM : I think that’s the best counterargument we could have, is that if that’s his claim about where we stood, then how is it that we’ve managed to produce what we have. Media : You talked about the tail of COVID there. What are the concerns that there are people out there who have had it, who have been told that they have recovered, and then it comes back again, and then they’re out there, like this case, and passing it on in level 3 where things aren’t so strict? PM : We’ve been having this discussion, of course. There is a threshold that needs to be met for someone to have been declared recovered, and the person that tested positive had not been declared recovered. But what we’re discussing now is just the length of time that COVID can take. So we’ve had this discussion before, and I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield on that, but this idea you can have COVID for a long period of time and that in can have—not necessarily be gone and come back but, actually, just persist with you for quite some period. So we’ve been talking about what work the technical advisory group can do to help us get reassurance that people who have recovered genuinely have. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, and I think further to that is this makes the physical distancing aspect of alert level 3 and beyond really important, because if people do have residual infection, it does not mean they are infectious, and if they are, the way they will not pass that on, including if they are asymptomatic, is by maintaining physical distance and by good hygiene practice. So that’s what everyone needs to do. Media : Would that see you extend the quarantine, then, for people who do get positive? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. For example, if the advice of the technical advisory group is to use testing as part of confirming whether people are recovered, then we would use extended isolation to help provide a buffer to make sure that they weren’t infectious and likely then to infect others. Media : Can I return to the subject of Jason’s earlier question about why it is that the Deputy Prime Minister was able to come in and release information about a Cabinet disagreement today. Is this a new era of openness of Cabinet discussions? I think that deserves better than a glib distancing. PM : Well, I don’t think I’m ever glib, but two clarifications. The first is that it wasn’t a Cabinet disagreement; it was advice from a department that, as a whole, Cabinet did not share that view. That is not unusual. You’ll often receive Cabinet papers that will hold a view that is not, overall, supported by the entire paper it even sits within. So it wasn’t a Cabinet disagreement as we would frame it. Cabinet disagreement is when we can’t form consensus as a group of Ministers. The second point that I would make is I frequently come down and share views and decision that are made, and we release Cabinet papers proactively that then demonstrate where a department takes a view counter to a decision we’ve made. So it’s not at all unusual for that to have been done, and that’s what the Deputy Prime Minister has done today, and he did it with my full knowledge. So I see nothing unusual about that at all. Media : Mental health workers are warning that isolation and redundancies are causing more people to suffer from mental health problems. Does that worry you, and what is the Government doing to mitigate the mental health fallout of the response? PM : All the way through, we’ve been concerned about mental health. Right before even making the decision about lockdown, this was something we were concerned about. We’ve invested heavily in mental health responses, whether or not it’s access to 1737—the mental health telehealth service—or actively promoting and supporting apps that people have been able to access from home. That has been a strong part of our in-isolation response to mental health. We also know one of the best things we can do is try to get back to normality as soon as we can, safely. OK. Thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Tena koutou katoa. Good afternoon. Welcome to day two of alert level 3. It may surprise some viewers today to see me here alongside Dr Bloomfield, because you will have heard me say that, recently, it was set down to be our last, for the foreseeable future, press conference together. But you will also have heard me repeatedly say that life at level 3 is very similar to life at level 4, and so we decided to extend that mantra into the way that we are treating it with our press conferences. So after some feedback, you will find us here together till the remainder of level 3 concludes, for the most part, with ongoing appearances from other Ministers and other agencies as part of the response to COVID-19. I’ll hand over, though, now for the health update from Dr Bloomfield. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today, I have two new COVID-19 cases to report. One is a new confirmed case that is in quarantine in Auckland, associated with international travel, and one is a probable case that is associated with an existing case. That is a close contact of an existing case. In addition to this, we have also reclassified a previous probable case as confirmed. This is an historic one. It actually dates from earlier in April, and it’s just been updated in our EpiSurv database as confirmed. So therefore, whilst the net increase today was two cases, our new total confirmed cases is 1,126, and for probable cases it is 348, which is the same as yesterday. Our total combined confirmed and probable cases is therefore 1,474. We report the confirmed case number to WHO and will continue to do so—that is the 1,126. Pleased to say no additional deaths to report today. We have six people in hospital, none of whom are in intensive care. Yesterday, 2,637 tests were completed, and our combined total to date is 128,073 tests. Of our cases, 1,229 are reported as recovered. That’s an increase of 15 on yesterday and now comprises 83 percent of all cases. There remain 16 significant clusters—no change from yesterday. A couple of words from me about alert level 3—as the Prime Minister said, now two days old. It’s important that we keep reinforcing the key messages around expectations and how we need to all behave during alert level 3. It’s crucial we stay vigilant and, in particular, maintain the guidelines around physical distancing, keeping within bubbles, good hand hygiene, and not going out if unwell. As commercial activity resumes, this applies to businesses and retailers who are now interacting in a contactless way with providers. Yesterday, like me, you will have seen some aspects of level 3 were a little bit like the first day back after the summer holidays, and also we were all getting used to a new way of doing things. I think for the most part businesses got that right. However, we did see some pictures of quite large groups of people congregating outside one or two places. I am sure those businesses involved will be working on their processes today to ensure that any customers waiting to pick up goods or services can maintain physical distancing. That will be imperative in terms of our ability to provide confidence to the Government that we are ready to move down alert levels in due course. As I said yesterday, we have a new section 70 notice that does include provisions to close non-compliant premises. However, I think yesterday would be a good example of everybody settling into a new regime, and for the most part that worked well, but just ironing out some small matters that do need to be ironed out quickly. So overall, the message is the same: stay home, save lives—and that’s our number one rule for alert level 3. If you need medical attention, ring Healthline, ring your GP, or if it’s an emergency, dial 111. If you have any respiratory symptoms, please do contact Healthline or your GP and talk about getting a COVID-19 test. Thank you, Prime Minister. --- Section Separator --- PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. I want to start by reminding people, in the same way that Dr Bloomfield has, that we are not out of the woods yet. While our case numbers remain low, we will still have cases, and we have seen with our large clusters in New Zealand that it only takes one person to potentially affect many. With that in mind, we continue to take a firm stance with the enforcement of rules at level 3. This is our waiting room, and so we need to make sure that we’re vigilant in the way that we treat it. The rules are ultimately in place for a reason, and that reason is to keep us safe but to also move us as quickly as we can into other alert levels. Police recorded 104 breaches in the first 18 hours of alert level 3. The vast majority of these resulted in warnings, but 21 people have been prosecuted and 71 warnings issued. In addition, 742 complaints of businesses not complying with level 3 rules were made. Most related, though, interestingly—most related—to a lack of social distancing and business operating practices. MBIE, MPI, and other agencies will be following up on a further proportion of these complaints. Agencies have been tasked in particular cases, where they’ve triaged—61 cases in particular are being followed up on. So while our preference is to educate and engage with businesses to ensure they’re operating within the rules, we will not hesitate to take firmer measures if required. I asked a couple of questions this morning, particularly of some of the images I’ve seen of areas—and there were a couple of persistent photos that lingered around from some places in particular—and I’ve been told that MBIE and Health have actively reached out to some of those businesses to make sure that they are working with them on the ground to improve their practices to stop congregation at their place of business. I’ll also update you today on early figures we have to hand on school and ECE attendance on the first day back today. Data from 10.30 a.m. this morning shows that 7,713 children attending an early learning service and 11,846 attending a school. This represents 4 percent attendance at ECE and 1 percent attendance in schools—keeping in mind, though, for those numbers, we’ve had reporting from 37 percent of early learning services and 55 percent of schools. So these numbers will be updated, but early indications are that New Zealanders continue to take our lockdown at level 3 very seriously, that there remains an ongoing commitment to cementing what we’ve done and, therefore, learning and working from home if that’s possible. I do want to thank everyone who’s doing that, though. I know distance learning and having children at home while you’re working can be very hard, but these early numbers demonstrate the ongoing commitment people are showing and New Zealand’s ongoing commitment to not seeing a second wave of infection in New Zealand. Finally, I want to talk about New Zealand’s small businesses, many of whom will now be back at work but some who will not. We have already put in place the wage subsidy scheme to help with what is usually a firm’s largest cost—wages—and today I can share news of further work that we are doing to help with commercial rents. As many of you will know, we have already agreed to push out deadlines on lease terminations when someone moves into arrears, but it is clear that this alone would not be enough for many businesses. We need to provide more reassurance, as much as we’re able to within the law. Although we cannot currently impose a commercial rent reduction—you’ve heard me speak to that a few times here—we have asked commercial tenants and landlords to work together to reach a fair agreement. However, some parties, on both sides of the contract, appear unwilling to renegotiate payment terms, with officials advising that some landlords are demanding full rent from tenants who have been unable to trade for several weeks and cannot afford it, while resource tenants have written to landlords declaring that they refuse to pay any rent for several months. Minister Little discussed options with other Ministers at Cabinet committee this morning. I can confirm that we are actively working on measures under which parties to a commercial lease would be expected to consider rent concessions in whole or in part for a period where the response to COVID-19 has had a material impact on business. We’ve heard the call for extra support from small business over and above that already provided through the wage subsidy and tax measures, and we are working actively to resolve that. So in principle, we have supported the work Minister Little is doing. We expect papers to come shortly, and as soon as those final decisions and work has been completed by the Ministry of Justice, we’ll be sharing it. I do want to acknowledge that something similar has been worked up in Australia. That code of conduct, as I understand, still hasn’t been legislated; that needs to happen at a state level. So we’re working actively, looking at some of the similarities of what they’ve done here and what will be workable under our property Act in New Zealand. Finally, it was my privilege during alert level 4 lockdown to thank all of our essential workers and others, who have done an amazing job. Now, at alert level 3, I’m receiving many, many examples of businesses using good old Kiwi ingenuity to open up at level 3 with contactless transactions. Today, I want to highlight a couple of examples from what I know will be the missed food and beverage sector. Gizzy Local, an events website, has collated in one place nearly 30 food businesses that Gisborne locals can now access, noting how to order and how to collect. Some of you will have seen coverage of the Auckland coffee shop extending a plank of wood from which to serve up their flat whites at an appropriate distance. I do want to say good on everyone who is working so hard to innovate, keep their customers safe, but get also their staff back to work. It’s incredible to see. I know it makes people feel very proud, given the difficult circumstances people are operating under. OK, we’re happy to take your questions. --- Section Separator --- Media :  Why did Cabinet reject advice from the Ministry of Health to close down the borders, including to returning New Zealand citizens? PM : Yes, you will have heard the Deputy Prime Minister point out that Health did suggest closing our borders entirely. Now, you’ll remember we did close them off to foreign nationals, but we did not consider that it would ever be OK to stop New Zealanders coming home. You’ll struggle to find countries in the world that would make a move like that. But we simply would not tolerate New Zealanders not having the option to return to the safety of New Zealand, their home. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what was the rationale behind the ministry’s call on this? Why did you take this to Cabinet in the first place? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So if you think about our elimination goal, there are two parts to it: keep it out and stamp it out. As we were moving very quickly from alert level 2 and 3 and into 4, we felt that until we had a really secure process in place—this was based on the position as we were providing the advice—for people to come across the border to actually isolate or quarantine them or be assured about the fact that they didn’t have intention, then we should at least temporarily close the border until we had that process in place. Cabinet balanced our advice up with all the advice they had, and, of course, with that came the instruction and the expectation that we would get that process in place very promptly. So that was the response to help mitigate that risk. PM : I think it’s totally understandable under the circumstances, the Ministry of Health taking that position. Of course, the Ministry of Health wasn’t required to weigh up our obligations through law to our own citizens. We did have to weigh that up. The way that we could deal with both obligations was actually to set up the kind of quarantine that we have now at the border, which is working well. Media : During that time, most of our cases were linked to international travel. Are you disappointed Cabinet went against that advice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not in the slightest bit, and you can see that not only was the decision to go into lockdown, alert level 4, made at the right time but that the additional measures we’ve been able to put in place to manage the border and prevent further cases coming in during that lockdown period has paid off, and that’s why now we are seeing any new cases coming across the border are, in fact, already in quarantine, and our overall low numbers reflect the fact that the overall approach was successful. Media : Would you have liked to see that quarantine, that mandatory quarantine, brought up sooner, though, considering that your initial advice was for a total shut down of the borders? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, no, I don’t, actually. I think we’ve been successful, and, as I say, Cabinet’s decision was made with the expectation that we would manage the risk at the border, and I feel we have done that successfully, and that is part of our ongoing keep it out, stamp it out approach. PM : I do just want to reinforce that you’ll be hard pressed to find many countries in the world who took an extraordinary stance to exclude their own citizens from returning back to the one place they have a legal right to be. It would have been extraordinary for the Government to make a decision to strand New Zealanders and give them no ability to be able to come home. It could have meant that they were stuck illegally in other places, and it could have meant they could be stuck unsafely in other places, and we just couldn’t entertain that. Equally, we needed to keep New Zealanders safe when they did return. Media : How quickly was that recommendation dismissed, then, given the basis? PM : It was never entertained, in the same way that almost no country in the world has entertained not allowing citizens to come home. It is an extraordinary thing to deem someone stateless, but if you tell someone that they cannot return home, that’s essentially what you’re doing. So there are international obligations that we have to consider with extraordinary decisions like that. Media : Under what legal basis, then, did the Ministry of Health— PM : They don’t have to consider those kinds of things. Media : Fundamental human rights? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we were giving our advice from a public health perspective. As I say, the approach was really clear: keep it out, stamp it out. It was clear at that point in time that most of our new cases were still coming in across the border, so we wanted Cabinet to understand from a public health perspective, if we were to mitigate that risk of cases coming in across the border, ideally we would close the border for a period. Cabinet weighed up the full range of matters, including, of course, other legal obligations, in making their decision. PM : Look, it’s not at all unusual. Ministries focus on their own obligations and their own focus. It wouldn’t have been normal for a public health response to factor in the kinds of things that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would. Media : Shouldn’t the Ministry of Health also weigh up human rights, though, when making recommendations to the Government? PM : We always make sure that within every decision that we make, we do have human rights considerations. That’s explicit in every paper we consider. It does not have to be generated by the Ministry of Health, though. It is always a consideration, though. Media : Dr Bloomfield, did you recommend a specific period for how long the border should remain closed for? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, we didn’t, actually, and I don’t recall the details. But what I will say is that the whole level 4 lockdown response was predicated on us managing the risk of new cases coming across the border and of breaking the chain of transmission in our communities here. We’ve been successful on both counts—that’s why we’re now in alert level 3. Media : What about a political lens on this decision, though, from the Ministry of Health? Shouldn’t the health Minister have realised that this was a breach of human rights and potentially suggested that instead of it going to Cabinet? PM : No. Actually, the Minister of Health—or, indeed, any Minister—doesn’t necessarily vet and curtail the advice of their ministry that’s made available to us, in the same way that the Minister of Finance won’t always agree with Treasury’s view. That’s still able to be put to us for full consideration. So they don’t filter the advice that comes through. So we were able to see what the view of the Ministry of Health was, and then it’s our job to weigh that up against all of the other legal considerations that we must have. Media : What were the dates of this Cabinet meeting? PM : I would—the periods of time have somewhat merged together for me! I can get you a date for that. My recollection—it was pre-level 4, is my recollection. Out of interest, we now have 3,241 in managed isolation or quarantine, and we’ve had roughly, give or take, about 25 people who have tested positive for COVID whilst they’ve been in our quarantine or isolation facilities, so it is proving its worth in stopping the spread of COVID. Media : Prime Minister, on social distancing, there’s a video online of a Burger Fuel outlet in Auckland. Have you seen that, and what’s your message for businesses who want to operate but, obviously, they’re not getting social distancing right? PM : I believe I’ve seen the same. I’ve seen still images rather than a video, and that caused me enough concern. I saw multiple angles of it. So it caught the attention of members of the public, which tells me that, by and large, people absolutely know what we need to be doing at level 3, but clearly that wasn’t happening in this scenario. We have had confirmation, though, from officials this morning that they have been directly in contact, I’m told, with the head office of that operation in order to ensure they understand their obligations and that they will manage their ongoing trade from here on, because they certainly didn’t fulfil those obligations last night. Media : On your phone call with the Queen last night, what was the purpose of that phone call and what did you discuss? PM : So as I mentioned, we received a message several days ago now, just suggesting that Her Majesty was eager to touch base and hear how New Zealand was doing under the circumstances of the global pandemic. So while it’s not general practice to comment to any detailed degree on the conversation, what I came away with was a very genuine and strong sense that Her Majesty is really interested in how we’re doing and was heartened to hear that we’re doing OK. Media : Prime Minister, is it helpful for the Foreign Minister to share advice that was rejected by Cabinet, seemingly with a political bent to prove that the Government has not been captured by the health ministry? PM : We work on proactive release, and so this is information that would have been public anyway, and will be. Media : New Zealanders who are returning home to be with dying relatives are still being subject to that 14-day quarantine. Under those circumstances, would there be grounds for an exception? PM : I’ve heard that this might be based on an actual case, so I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, thanks, Prime Minister. So, look, there is a process for seeking an exemption or an exception for those people coming into the country. They are granted under very limited circumstances. Clearly, as I’ve said, the border remains and managing the risk at the border remains a really important part of both our alert level 4 and alert level 3 stance. So at the moment, there is an exception process. People can apply, and they do. Obviously, where circumstances are where there is a dying relative, we take a very compassionate look at that, but we also have to weigh that up against the overall approach to protect all New Zealanders. I have asked the team, as we start to prepare for a move to alert level 2, to revisit that as well and just see what other things could be put in place to help manage that risk. Media : Because the people that we’ve spoken to have described the process as slow and unwieldy in terms of making that application. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’m sorry if that was their experience, and I’ll take that feedback back. Obviously, we recognise the urgency of these sorts of decisions, so I’ll make sure that the process is expeditious and fair. PM : This is incredibly difficult no matter what way you look at it, but you’ll also see from the statistics we’ve provided that albeit a small number, we are still seeing COVID cases coming in from international travel. We have to make sure that in allowing and enabling people to see family members they’re desperate to see, that we don’t have double tragedies. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what measures should food delivery drivers be taking? Are you concerned that they could potentially be a vector by going from restaurants, cafes, into people’s homes and workplaces? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, they could potentially, and therefore it’s very important they’ve got both the understanding of what hygiene measures they need to take, including regular use of hand gels, would be the most practical, wearing a mask if needs be. However, importantly, also their employer or the place they are servicing needs to also be facilitating that for them. It is very important, but we have had experience of this through alert level 4 with couriers operating at quite high volumes during alert level 4 to get goods and services out there. So I think people understand what the expectations are, and it’s very important that they abide by them. Media : Would you recommend that they wear PPE masks? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not specifically. They shouldn’t need a mask if they are not symptomatic—in which case they shouldn’t be going to work—and if they’re not having face-to-face contact with them, and that’s the whole point of the delivery, is they need to be contactless. The key thing is the regular handwashing and good hygiene within their vehicles. Media : Is there an update on those New Zealanders returning from overseas sharing some of the costs of quarantine? PM : I have asked for another paper to come back to Cabinet. One of the things that we’ve been mindful is we’re trying to reach a point where, actually, we’re bringing back all those who are caught up in the circumstances of COVID-19, through no fault of their own, and where we’re getting into a point where there is more deliberate decision-making, because then people know they’re going to encounter these costs in particular. So we have asked officials to provide us extra advice so we can work through what a cost recovery regime will look like in the future. Media : Prime Minister, Minister Sepuloni spoke of unemployment yesterday. She confirmed that unemployment will be likely to go up post-COVID, which isn’t a surprise, but there is concern within some Māori communities that life after COVID will just continue to extend that gap between the rich and the poor. What will you be doing to make sure that doesn’t happen? PM : You will have heard me say from this podium before that this has to be an opportunity for us to finally close the inequities that we have in New Zealand and that we’ve had for a persistent amount of time. Now, whether or not it’s the guidance that see from the State Services Commission saying today to exercise wage restraint for those on higher incomes but to consider the wage situation of those on lower incomes, or whether it’s the work that we’re proactively doing to redeploy to drive a high-wage economy to see that we don’t replace those industries that traditionally have had lower wages with more lower wages. This is an opportunity and we need to use it. Media : So your expectation is, then, Prime Minister, that we look forward three months, six months, one year, two years—that that gap will be less as opposed to going wider? PM : Our goal as a Government has always been to reduce inequalities. That is now our focus, now more than ever. Media : On 23 March, you told us that we needed to stay home and save lives—the day that you announced you the lockdown—stay home, save lives, or tens of thousands of New Zealanders could die. Was it a surprise to you, then, that in the immediate wake of that advice, two days later, on the day of the lockdown, your health Minister hired a moving company and moved house? PM : No. I was aware that the Minister, before lockdown, had moved home—before lockdown. This was something that he completed, a sale, before New Zealand even had a COVID case. Media : The day that he moved was the day that we went into lockdown. What do you say to all New Zealanders who deferred their settlement or didn’t move into their new homes or were given warnings by police for trying to move house in level 3 or level 4? PM : My message is very, very simple. I will not hesitate to act when it comes to a Minister who I believe warrants my action against them, and you’ve already seen that. In this case, I do not believe that is the case, based on what I have been advised. Media : But that two days that we were in level 3, that was just basically so the lockdown door wasn’t slammed in our face, wasn’t it? It wasn’t to try and sneak through a kind of moving date, as the Minister did, on the day that we went into lockdown. PM : Again, and that’s not how I would characterise things. For me, I am very clear: you have already seen that if I believe it’s warranted for a Minister to be severely reprimanded, for demotion to occur, I will not hesitate on that. But based on the information I’ve received, I do not believe that is warranted in this case. Media : So you think it’s fine to move house on the day that the country went into lockdown? Because that wasn’t the advice that your ministries were giving. PM : Again, I’ve already shared with you my exact principle in dealing with these kinds of situations. You’ll have already seen I won’t hesitate to act if that is what is required, but based on the information I have, that is not what is required here. Media : What do you make of suggestions in the past few days, including at select committee by submitters today, that New Zealand was unprepared for a pandemic, in part due to under-investment in public health and the fragmentation of those functions across the health sector? PM : Yeah, so two comments I would make. Firstly, it is very difficult for the world to have actually been well prepared for what has become a one-in-100-year global pandemic, and I think you’ll see, to varying degrees, that has been manifest for all of us. But when it comes to actually public health, I would agree that we do need to rebuild our health system, and in particular the investment in public health. That is something that I would have said even before COVID-19, and it was part of this Government’s agenda. But what we’re seeing is some specific elements of public health that did need that extra investment and modernisation. Previously, there probably hasn’t been the reason for PHUs, who have operated separately, to necessarily have the national footing that we now see as so, so necessary—dealing with TB, dealing with rheumatic fever. We may well have had that advice post-measles, but we’re still in the aftermath of working through that to have made that determination. But the fact we’ve managed to change our footing within a month I think demonstrates that we can be agile. Media : Over a number of years now, you’ve told us, when we’ve asked about what happened in Cabinet, that you don’t discuss what happens in Cabinet. So what changed today that made the Deputy Prime Minister come up and so overtly talk about something so substantial that happened in Cabinet? What’s the difference? PM : Jason, you’ll find that I usually say that when you’re fishing. Media : Dr Bloomfield, there’s a call from the primary teachers union for teachers to be made a priority group for flu jabs. Is that in the pipeline? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, actually, now any New Zealander can get a flu jab, so from this week it’s been opened up not just to those vulnerable groups that are publicly funded but any New Zealander, including our school teachers, can get a jab. It sounds like, from the number of students who are at school, there might be opportunity to do that. I recognise teachers are actually doing a lot of teaching online still for all those students at home. But all New Zealanders are now able to get a flu jab, and I would encourage them to do so. PM : OK, last couple. Media : [ Inaudible ] we saw another case linked to it yesterday, so how are we still seeing cases— PM : Historic, yeah. Media : —linked to it so far along in the time line? PM : An old one. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, so just a comment on the case yesterday. This was someone who had only been tested in the last few days but had actually been symptomatic earlier in April. So one of the things we’re doing is actually having a really good look at that cluster, because I think it can tell us a lot about the transmission of this virus in a school group, either between students or between teachers and students, between teachers and teachers, and also within family settings. So we’re looking to do a study there to see what was the pattern of infection, because I think it will inform us, and, in fact, will inform the scientific body of knowledge globally about just how to manage these situations. PM : It tells us that there’s a long tail to COVID, though, when you have that length of time and still someone testing positive. Dr Ashley Bloomfield Yes, we’ve seen this with other clusters as well, including the Bluff one. Media : [ Inaudible ] random testing is taking place this week, if any, and where it’s happening, and if we’re making the most of our increased capacity for testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so the priority for testing through alert level 3 remains, first of all, finding any symptomatic people—so case finding. Secondly, we’ve asked all the district health boards to have a very planned approach to not random testing but testing specific populations and settings, including in healthcare settings, aged residential care, settings where there are essential workers, like supermarkets that might have exposure to members of the public quite frequently. So that’s part of our, what I would call, surveillance testing and that’s moving into a much more systematic approach. As we move to alert level 2, we will do that in a way that is informed by epidemiological advice around what sampling frames we need to make sure we are testing sufficient New Zealanders in different regions and from different ethnic groups, to get a really clear picture of whether there is any underlying infection there that we’re not detecting through case finding. Media : Is there any details [ Inaudible ] Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, we can provide some. It’s happening in different—there are some details back at the ministry about what different DHBs are doing, and some of them have been putting this up on their website. So we’ll talk with them about making available on their websites an outline of what testing they are planning over this next couple of weeks. PM : We can probably bring you an update tomorrow as well, yeah. Media : Prime Minister, should there be a limit on the number of people from a bubble that can collect takeaway food? Because in some of the images, there’s groups of three or four people, presumably from the same bubble, and that means there’s less space for everyone else to socially distance. PM : Yeah, I take your point. I mean, we haven’t put out that same level of specificity, but it’s fair to say the guidelines that we put out at level 4 around limiting people’s movements, limiting being out and about, limiting being in the supermarket—they all still apply. So again, we just want people to stick to those same principles now, even though you have the joy of being able to queue, which obviously has become a social activity for some bubbles. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what have the testing results been for the residents at a Hawke’s Bay holiday park where one resident tested positive for the virus? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have the final results, because most of those swabs were taken yesterday, but if they’re all back, we’ll make it available. What I can say is of all the tests done yesterday, which would have included some of those processed and perhaps all of them, none of those were positive, but we can confirm that. Media : Is it concerning that two staff members from the same rest home have now tested positive despite having no symptoms? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, actually, we’ve seen this in other aged residential care facilities, and over the last two weeks we have changed our approach nationally to, if we do get a case in a facility, testing all residents and staff regardless of symptoms. That’s now an embedded part of our routine approach to infections in these facilities. PM : As is the testing protocols for asymptomatic testing of close contacts when someone is an essential worker in a place where there is high contact with people. So asymptomatic testing is happening under those scenarios. Media : Just on midwives quickly, why are midwives’ extra costs still not being funded, and why hasn’t Cabinet signed off on the Cabinet document that would fund them? PM : So we have said that we do want to cover off legitimate costs for health practitioners for COVID-19, and we’re still in the process of working through what the detail of some of that would imply, and that includes for maternity services. I haven’t got a time line for you, but I think it’s under active consideration by the Ministry of Health at the moment. Media : What are your thoughts on David Clark going forward? Is his job safe as health Minister, or, as we come out of lockdown, is it something you’ll be reviewing? PM : He remains as our health Minister. I know I’ve had those ongoing questions from time to time, but I can tell you that you can put a hypothetical and have any Minister’s name in there, around their ongoing future, and my answer to this will be that until I say otherwise, people are in their jobs. But I expect everyone to maintain standards throughout their role as Ministers, and I give no Minister guarantees about anyone’s future, because we all have to maintain standards all the way through our practice in these roles. Media : Professor Gorman told the Epidemic Response Committee this morning that our borders—we should have had really strict border measures in the middle of February. Was that ever considered? And he also said that the high-trust, sort of, isolation model was flawed and it should have been a low-trust model, given what he’d observed in other countries like Taiwan, where if people even turned their phones off, they were checked on immediately. PM : Yeah, I don’t think—oh, sorry, you didn’t mean that for me. Media : Oh, no, it’s for both of you. PM : How about I have a go first and then I’ll hand over. Well, first thing I would say is that I wouldn’t have called it simply a high-trust model. There were checks in place. We did have the police involved. We had Healthline involved. But it became very clear to us that not only did we need a more rigorous approach; we needed to stop household transmission. So at a point where we were able to manage a system where everyone was quarantined, keeping in mind we had tens of thousands of people returning in those early days, we moved to that. On the question of timeliness, New Zealand, 20 days after our first case, closed our borders to foreign travellers. Now, that made us amongst the first in the world to have done that. So I think that was a significant move by us, and we did it very, very early on in our COVID journey. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just a follow up comment on that. I think you have to live life forward, but you understand it looking back. At the time, we were making decisions, as the Prime Minister said, well before other countries were, based on the same information. I think based on the information we had—remembering that when we stood up our National Health Coordination Centre, there were less than 300 cases globally of this disease, and five deaths—we were incredibly responsive to what we saw emerging, and responded. As I’ve said a number of times, we were constantly thinking “What do we need to do in two weeks’ time?”, and then do it today. So I think the success of our approach is evident in the position we find ourselves today, which is not unique, but we are amongst a very small number of countries in this very fortunate position, that all New Zealanders have put us in, where we now have choices about what steps we take next. PM : I’ll just take a last couple. Media : Can I follow with that? PM : Sure, Derek. Last one. Media : He just said that the fact that we didn’t have—obviously, the logistics to set that up at the border is huge— PM : Capacity. We’ve talked about that. Media : Yeah, but he said the fact that we couldn’t do that in mid-February was a reflection of how under-resourced we were in our pandemic plan and that showed that we were basically caught with our pants down. PM : Well, I would disagree with that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I mean, the proof’s in the pudding, isn’t it? I think for an under-prepared or ill-prepared country, we’ve done remarkably well, and I don’t think we were ill-prepared. We have got a very comprehensive plan. We responded very promptly, and that was not just the health effort; that was an all-of-Government effort right from day one. I think the evidence is in the position we find ourselves now. PM : I think that’s the best counterargument we could have, is that if that’s his claim about where we stood, then how is it that we’ve managed to produce what we have. Media : You talked about the tail of COVID there. What are the concerns that there are people out there who have had it, who have been told that they have recovered, and then it comes back again, and then they’re out there, like this case, and passing it on in level 3 where things aren’t so strict? PM : We’ve been having this discussion, of course. There is a threshold that needs to be met for someone to have been declared recovered, and the person that tested positive had not been declared recovered. But what we’re discussing now is just the length of time that COVID can take. So we’ve had this discussion before, and I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield on that, but this idea you can have COVID for a long period of time and that in can have—not necessarily be gone and come back but, actually, just persist with you for quite some period. So we’ve been talking about what work the technical advisory group can do to help us get reassurance that people who have recovered genuinely have. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, and I think further to that is this makes the physical distancing aspect of alert level 3 and beyond really important, because if people do have residual infection, it does not mean they are infectious, and if they are, the way they will not pass that on, including if they are asymptomatic, is by maintaining physical distance and by good hygiene practice. So that’s what everyone needs to do. Media : Would that see you extend the quarantine, then, for people who do get positive? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. For example, if the advice of the technical advisory group is to use testing as part of confirming whether people are recovered, then we would use extended isolation to help provide a buffer to make sure that they weren’t infectious and likely then to infect others. Media : Can I return to the subject of Jason’s earlier question about why it is that the Deputy Prime Minister was able to come in and release information about a Cabinet disagreement today. Is this a new era of openness of Cabinet discussions? I think that deserves better than a glib distancing. PM : Well, I don’t think I’m ever glib, but two clarifications. The first is that it wasn’t a Cabinet disagreement; it was advice from a department that, as a whole, Cabinet did not share that view. That is not unusual. You’ll often receive Cabinet papers that will hold a view that is not, overall, supported by the entire paper it even sits within. So it wasn’t a Cabinet disagreement as we would frame it. Cabinet disagreement is when we can’t form consensus as a group of Ministers. The second point that I would make is I frequently come down and share views and decision that are made, and we release Cabinet papers proactively that then demonstrate where a department takes a view counter to a decision we’ve made. So it’s not at all unusual for that to have been done, and that’s what the Deputy Prime Minister has done today, and he did it with my full knowledge. So I see nothing unusual about that at all. Media : Mental health workers are warning that isolation and redundancies are causing more people to suffer from mental health problems. Does that worry you, and what is the Government doing to mitigate the mental health fallout of the response? PM : All the way through, we’ve been concerned about mental health. Right before even making the decision about lockdown, this was something we were concerned about. We’ve invested heavily in mental health responses, whether or not it’s access to 1737—the mental health telehealth service—or actively promoting and supporting apps that people have been able to access from home. That has been a strong part of our in-isolation response to mental health. We also know one of the best things we can do is try to get back to normality as soon as we can, safely. OK. Thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily media conference 29 April 2020
The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference here. Transcript of the daily media conference 4 May 2020
Home Updates Transcript of the daily media conference 4 May --- Section Separator --- Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to this afternoon’s briefing. Today we have no new cases of COVID-19 to report. One probable case already known to us has been reclassified as confirmed, following a positive test in the last few days, so that is a probable case that has now become a confirmed case. It means there’s no change to the overall total of confirmed and probable cases, which remains at 1,487. I’m pleased to say there are no additional deaths to report. So our total number of confirmed cases rises by one and is now 1,137, and this is the number that we continue to report to the World Health Organisation. Yesterday, being a Sunday, there were a lower number of tests—2,473 tests completed, a combined total to date 152,696 tests completed. Of our cases, 1,276 are now reported as recovered, an increase of 10 on yesterday, and now 86 percent of our total confirmed and probable cases are considered recovered. Today there are seven people in hospital and none in ICU. We still have the 16 significant clusters and three of these are now considered closed as there is no longer transmission of the virus within the cluster, and that’s a period of two incubation periods, so a total of 28 days since those three clusters had a case. Clearly, these are encouraging figures today, but it is just one moment in time. The real test is later this week when we factor in the incubation period for the virus and the time it takes for people to display symptoms, which is generally five to six days after exposure. So that’s when we will have an indication if there are any new cases coming through that might be emerging in the community as a result of our shift from level 4 to level 3. We cannot afford to squander all the hard work and effort of the past weeks. We did see at the weekend that it can be easy to start slackening off, and we need to maintain discipline and keep pushing on and sustain the advantage that we have fought so hard for. Today I also want to commend the work on an initiative involving students and staff at Auckland’s Marist College. The staff and students will be offered the opportunity to undergo free COVID-19 testing this week in a joint initiative between the public health unit and DHB and the school. While only half of the 94 cases associated with the Marist cluster were directly associated with the college—the others were a result of transmission within families or to others in the community—it’s important that the wider school community is given the opportunity to be tested. The testing has been agreed in a discussion between the school board, the Ministry of Education, the Auckland metro district health boards, and the Auckland Regional Public Health Service. I’m strongly supportive of this initiative and look forward to following the progress of it during the week. I also want to address the topic of flu vaccination. This is something we’ve been plugging hard this year, not because the flu vaccine gives any protection whatsoever against COVID19 but because by vaccinating as many New Zealanders as possible, in particular our older people and vulnerable New Zealanders, that reduces the likelihood that they will get the flu and then suffer the sorts of illness that might put them in hospital. It has been a record year for flu vaccines, with more than 1.35 million vaccines already distributed out to general practices, pharmacies, workplaces, and other providers, and this is more than has ever been distributed in an entire flu season here in New Zealand previously. And you will be aware, because we’ve talked about it, that an additional 400,000 doses of vaccine were procured by PHARMAC for this year, before the COVID-19 pandemic had even appeared on our horizon. It’s been important for us to prioritise those vulnerable groups early on. Hence we started the vaccination campaign two weeks early and we continued to just prioritise and make it available for those groups that are publicly funded for a full month. I can reassure those of us who are relatively healthy that there is a very low level of influenza circulating in our community, and I’ve pointed this out before—that our flu tracker and our monitoring of influenza-like illness is very, very low; a direct result of the period of lockdown we have been under, which has stopped all sorts of respiratory viruses circulating in the community. So the current travel restrictions and restrictions under alert level 3 will be continuing that. I’m pleased to say that over 451,000 people over 65 have been vaccinated already this year, exceeding the total number vaccinated in the whole campaign last year in this age group. And, likewise, more Māori over 65 have been vaccinated in the past five weeks than in the entire year of vaccination last year. Nearly 1.4 million doses of vaccine have been distributed to providers, and, as of 30 April, around 700,000 of those were recorded on our National Immunisation Register as administered. So there are still approximately 700,000 doses of flu vaccine out in the community. Some will have been administered but not yet entered on the National Immunisation Register and others are waiting to be administered around our one thousand or so general practices, several hundred pharmacies that have accredited vaccinators, and a range of other providers. And, of course, there have been challenges around distribution of stock, but any GP or pharmacy that has run out of stock at this point and still have at-risk people requiring vaccination should get in touch with their local immunisation coordinator, who have been coordinating the process of redistribution and/or prioritising access to the next shipment of vaccines when it arrives. Just putting that in context, remember that there is only 1 percent of the pre - COVID-19 number of international flights being undertaken. So we’ve worked hard to get a priority for those next two shipments of further vaccine, which are arriving this week and next week. To conclude with three important messages: first of all, if anyone has cold or flu-like symptoms, however mild, please do seek advice and ask about getting a test as quickly as possible. This is the point in time when we want to find any residual infections that could be COVID-19 out in the community. Please also check that your phone details are up to date with your GP practice. That will help if there’s any need for us to be able to contact you as part of contact tracing. And I guess my final important message is to thank all of you, as I have before, in the media for the important role you have played over the last three months in supporting our collective efforts to keep the public informed, to ask the important questions and the hard questions, and to ensure that we are being held to account for answering those. Thank you very much, and I’m open now to further questions. Media: Dr Bloomfield, have you talked to your counterpart or health counterparts in Australia around their processes and how you can match our processes to theirs if there was some kind of trans-Tasman bubble? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, we are in constant dialogue with our Australian counterparts. And it seems to me one of the things that will be very important if there is an agreement at the highest level to have a trans-Tasman bubble, that we are working very closely with our Australian counterparts on what those key public health pillars would need to be around how we are testing for, identifying, and isolating cases and contacts, and also our position around contact tracing and our ability to exchange information smoothly to ensure that any contacts or potential contacts could be followed up if they had travelled in either direction. Media: Are you confident, though, that you could get there with Australia—that they have the kind of health system that would, you know, reach that standard for you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think we would need to be confident in each other’s capabilities in that regard, and my sense is—if I reflect how closely we have worked together over the last three months, right from the early days and trying to go very much in tandem with the range of moves we’ve made, whether it was around the border, around case definitions and sharing of information—I’m confident we could continue that to support a trans-Tasman bubble arrangement if that’s what the Governments agree. Media: Now that we’ve reached zero new cases, can you explain why we still need to stay in level 3 for the full two weeks? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, and the important thing here, of course, is that we are still wanting to be sure that there is no undetected community transmission out in our communities. We’ve had a week of testing out in the community to identify—so testing asymptomatic people in a range of settings, and that continues this week. And our public health units and DHBs have just got some very clear advice, detailed advice, around the sorts of environments they should be testing in, the numbers of people—for example, to the level of detail around which aged residential care facilities, how many people they should be sampling in each, supermarket workers they should be sampling, which people they should be sampling in healthcare settings as well. So reflecting on the incubation period of this virus—and it’s really later this week that we will be confident if we are or are not seeing new cases popping up in the community. So that’s why it’s very important we maintain the current posture. Media: How concerned are you about the long tail like we saw at Marist, for example? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, it’s clear from looking at other countries that are in a similar position, or have been in a similar position, there is a very long tail, and what we’re trying to do now, of course, is make sure we are, in effect, finding any potential additional cases that are associated with current cases or clusters. And what I can say, having just had an update on some of the cases that we had in the last week or so, where it wasn’t immediately clear what the exposure was, there has been wide testing around them of their work and family contacts and even more widely, and none of that testing has shown up with any further cases, which is reassuring, but we want to just make sure we are covering off that long tail. It’s been very interesting to see that what we’ve had in New Zealand mirrors what other countries have found as well. Media: How real is the risk that people look at the fact that there are no new cases and celebrate this news and think that we’re out of the woods and then go out there and breach the guidelines? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, it is a risk, and that’s why I’ve emphasised that this is just a point in time and it remains very important—very important—for us to maintain a discipline around this and be vigilant. We’re now a week away from Cabinet making a decision about a move to Alert Level 2. And I think both the Prime Minister and I have been clear that it’s not just the number of cases or the pattern but the level to which people are taking seriously the expectations, particularly around physical distancing, hygiene measures, and not really squandering the advantage we have created for ourselves. Media: Likewise, this is cause for celebration, isn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m sorry? Media: And likewise, this is cause for celebration, though, isn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It is cause for celebration. I think it’s important that we reflect that it is symbolic of the effort that everybody has put in. So I don’t want to downplay that, but, once again, you know, we need to be continuing vigilance. So, yes, it is important we all collectively acknowledge this is the first day when we’ve had no new cases, and we want to keep it that way. Media: How many cases are you still investigating in terms of where they were? There’s two last week—I’m not sure if they’re being included. How many, do you think, are still possible community transmission? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So there are still the two, and just to describe a couple of those cases we had last week—one which was in Nelson-Marlborough and one which had been found through our surveillance testing of the workforce at Auckland Airport. In both instances, there was an explanation related to overseas travel some time ago, and it’s likely that the late positive test reflects the fact that these people had been infected and there were still fragments of the virus that showed up on the test. But it doesn’t necessarily mean they’re infective, and, more importantly, in testing all the people around them, there are no further positive tests. So that’s what we’re really looking for, even those cases where we can‘t necessarily fully explain where the infection might have occurred. Media: Dr Bloomfield, what’s the Government’s thoughts in terms of these sort of tests that can be carried out on location in a matter of minutes or hours as opposed to having to be sent to a lab? Is that something that you see any promise in or see a use for in our current situation? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So that’s a development we are watching carefully. What we’re most interested in at the moment, of course, is having the most accurate testing, and I think the point of care testing is still a bit like the antibody testing—there’s still questions about reliability and so it’s one to watch. Where it may be useful, if we can get some reliable point of care testing, could be, for example, in more remote locations, where it would speed up the turn-around time or, secondly, it may play a role in supporting us at the border and in particular with people who are flying out and are going to a country on business, for example, where they’re required to have a test. It could play a role there, but, again, at this stage, not sufficiently reliable and we will stick with the fact that we’ve got very good testing capacity right across the country, and we continue to work hard to make sure the turnaround times are quick on those. Media: This approach in public health, would you permit nurses to work on a COVID ward one day and another virus-free ward with high-risk elderly patients the next day? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I know there’s been some concern around this at Waitakere Hospital, and there’s been a response from one of the clinical leaders up there in the Auckland metro district health boards. I would rely on the advice of the clinicians, remembering that staff inside our hospitals day in, day out—particularly in the intensive care units—are working with, and caring for, people who have a whole range of infections. So the practice that the clinicians and the clinical experts are advising on there is based on experience and based on their very best advice. So I would defer to those clinical specialists for their advice. Media: But other public health experts we’ve spoken to are horrified that Waitakere did that. Would you agree with that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, again, I would be looking to the clinicians there who are working in those settings. They’re experts, and they would be providing the advice, and I would imagine that, like me, they would consider that what would be paramount would be ensuring that both staff and other patients in the hospital were kept safe. And hence I know that they will have very detailed procedures around the use of PPE, washing uniforms, and so on that would support safe practice. Media: That seems to defy common sense, though, when it’s such a virulent thing you’re dealing with, to have people moving in between wards with high-risk patients. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, again, I just point to the fact that, like us, I know that the teams leading the response up there rely on and put a lot of stock on getting the best possible clinical advice and that that is based on experience, of course. And, as I say, people working in all sorts of healthcare settings are dealing with infected—people with infections, a whole range of infections, in their usual daily practice, and that would be what they are basing their advice on. My expertise isn’t public health. I wouldn’t be second-guessing the advice that infectious disease specialists were giving. I think they are best placed to give that advice. Media: Dr Bloomfield, this approach that the Auckland DHB has taken around testing everyone that had any involvement with this Marist cluster—all students, teachers etc.— would you expect to see other DHBs take that on board with the other clusters that we have, and do that wider testing across other clusters as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I think there’s a very specific approach being taken with the Marist cluster, in particular the decision around reopening the school and to help inform the school, the students, and, of course, the school community more widely. In fact, in each of the clusters, in particular those ones in aged residential care facilities, there’s been quite wide testing of non-symptomatic residents and staff and also family members to help support control of those clusters. So certainly over the last couple of weeks, as we’ve learnt more about the transmission of this virus, we’ve moved much more to working with the DHBs around quite wide testing. And even in the case of individual cases, some individual cases we have seen where we’ve tested—for example, there was one in Hawke’s Bay where there was a resident at a campground there, or a holiday park. And testing has been offered to and conducted and most of the people living in that who were wanting to be tested—everyone who was offered a test was tested. Media: So you’re confident, then, that where there’s been any sort of build up or reaching that cluster point that there has been substantial testing in all of those areas already, based on rest homes, etc., or are there still some areas where we have had clusters identified where there hasn’t been that wider testing go on? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, for the last two or three weeks we’ve been advising on working closely with the public health units about quite wide testing of asymptomatic people, and I talk about this notion of putting a wide ring-fence around these clusters, and particularly in the ARC settings, but it’s also being used with some of these other clusters as well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, areas like Tai Rāwhiti in the West Coast haven’t had any new cases in two weeks. They’ve done a lot of community testing. Would they have a good argument, areas like that, for those regional bubbles we’ve talked about? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: They may do in the future. I think at the moment our advice, and I think the position, is we maintain a single national approach. And the advantage, of course, for those regional bubbles would be if that allowed interregional travel in particular, but otherwise it may allow some wider commerce retail and so on in those bubbles. We’re into the second week of Alert Level 3. As I say, we will not know until later this week whether that loosening of the restrictions from level 4 to level 3 anywhere, even if they haven’t had or have had cases recently—we won’t know if there are other cases out there that might spring up. So I think it’s the right position currently to keep everybody under the level 3. Regional differentiation may play a role in the future, but not at this point. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how far away is a decision on a contact-tracing app and do we need one to be in play here in New Zealand to move to level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So on the first question, we’re currently finalising advice for Cabinet and it will be a Cabinet decision around both the functionality of and the timing of the use of an app and when that is made available. Do we need it to go into Alert Level 2? No, it’s quite clear from our experience here and even if we look at other countries that the mainstay of being able to support a move to ease restrictions is having that really good core contact-tracing system in place, which we’ve been working hard to strengthen. The app may play a role—or an app may play a role in supporting that, but it will be additional to what that core capacity is there. But not having an app in place won’t be a constraint to moving to level 2. Media: And in terms of breaches, is there a certain threshold for us not being able to move to level 2 because we can’t be certain that people haven’t been mingling? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t think there’s a level, but I think that it’s very important for all New Zealanders just to maintain the current expectations, and, you know, we did really well through Alert Level 4. We’re nearly there but let’s not slacken off now. We’re not putting a number on it but it will be clear if there is widespread behaviour, that could be creating risk, and I think that will definitely factor into the advice and the decision that Cabinet will make next week. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the New Zealand Private Surgical Hospitals Association has come out and said that 30,000 elective surgeries were postponed over level 4. How are we going to be able to cope with that backlog and what’s being planned at the moment to do that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, look, there’s a great deal of planning and action under way because we’re already into Alert Level 3 by a week. And that work is happening with the private hospitals because, clearly, they’re going to be an important part of catching up on that surgery and other procedures that were postponed. So, yes, this is the big challenge for the system—to do as much of that work as possible while still dealing with any acute care needs that come through the door and, of course, maintain vigilance and keeping things safe from a COVID-19 perspective. So there’s a challenge ahead but all the DHBs are focused very hard and on working with private sector to ensure we catch up on that backlog. Media: How long do you think it will take us to catch up? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Oh, look, it will clearly take some months. Media: So months rather than years? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Ah, well, obviously, we’d be aiming for months, because remembering that what we aim to do, of course, in a non - COVID-19 environment is to provide people with their first specialist assessment within a four-month period and then, if they’re deemed to need a procedure, to provide that within four months. So the aspiration is to get back to within those time frames again as quickly as possible. Media: Can I just clarify what the instruction for elective surgeries for over-70s and obese patients are during level 3 and level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know about level 2, but I did hear this morning, yes, the description around—in Alert Level 3, of course, when we still are in a situation where there may be risk to older people and people with pre-existing conditions, if their surgery can be deferred, then the advice is to defer that to avoid exposing them to any potential risk of COVID-19. Once we move down alert levels, then clearly there’s a much lower risk and then that stance wouldn’t continue. Media: [Inaudible] nurses moving between the COVID ward and other wards, each DHB seems to have different rules on this. Why are there not ministry guidelines on best practice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, there are ministry guidelines on best practice for a lot of things, including use of PPE. But also recall that each hospital is different in terms of staffing, the sorts of services they provide, the way their wards are configured, the number of staff on shifts, the seriousness of the illnesses that they may be dealing with, so it’s absolutely appropriate that each hospital works out what is the best way to ensure that they are keeping staff safe, patients safe, while being able to run rosters to provide care—not just for those people with COVID-19 but all the other patients who are in the hospital as well. Media: But in this case we now have, what, 57 staff stood down so it doesn’t seem like the best approach, does it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the approach to stand the staff down to head off any risk of further transmission is absolutely the right approach, and this is what we have done where we have had other cases like this. I, again, defer to the fact that the clinicians were actively leading the process of providing the advice, and they will continue to. In so saying, just as we have done in other settings, as we have learnt more in aged residential care about the nature of these infections and the way they transmit, we have constantly reviewed and updated our approach and our guidance. Media: Dr Bloomfield, Cabinet’s taking a look at what the rules will be at level 2. Have you given any particular advice about that, and when you balance the sort of “no new cases today” with the somewhat reckless behaviour, I guess, from a minority over the weekend, what sort of reckons do you have, or what have you suggested, based on that around those level 2 rules? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can say, yes, of course we’ve provided advice into the issues around Alert Level 2 that Cabinet is considering today, and the Prime Minister will be able to update you on what Cabinet’s consideration was later today, but I can’t second-guess or pre-empt that. Media: But in terms of your own advice, given that we’re down to zero, but given you have been quite clear that people are not doing what’s been asked of them at level 3— some people—what’s the advice for level 2 to sort of balance those two things? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think that advice will be the advice we’ll provide and input into for Cabinet for next week’s decision. What they’re considering today is what the Alert Level 2 looks like in more detail, so that’s not the decision about whether to move to Alert Level 2. I think the balance of where the cases are coming from, the pattern, whether we are seeing new, emergent cases, and also the compliance with level 3 will be something they will consider next week. Media: So, just to clarify, you don’t give any specific advice about what level 2 may or may not look like—you just give the numbers, so to speak? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We’ve given advice—very clear advice—that is being considered by Cabinet today about what level 2 looks like, along with all our agencies across Government. That’s what’s being considered today. What’s for next week is: is it appropriate for us to move to level 2? That’s the decision that Cabinet will be considering next week. Media: On the 57 staff stood down from Waitakere Hospital, has that created any staffing issues or shortages? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not as far as I know, and I did speak to the chief executive over the weekend. So they’re obviously having to move staff around to accommodate that and, indeed, move some of the patients, but that’s something that they will manage there. I think it’s appropriate they’ve taken a precautionary approach, and I know they will be doing some wide testing just to ensure that there has been no further transmission. Media: Dr Bloomfield, given the current border closures and the high proportion of migrants in our health sector, is the ministry worried about the long-term implications of staffing the health system if the borders remain closed for a long time, as they seem to be? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, one of the things we’ve been doing right from the start, as I think you know, is canvassing people who might have been out of the workforce for a range of reasons, and over 9,000 people have registered to be available to support the health system, if required. So my sense is we are able to manage with what we have got here, I’m sure, for some time. However, we will also be looking at, if there are emergent needs—including, for example, in the home and community support sector or aged residential care, where quite a number of the workers are from overseas—we would be working with the wider sector to find out what their needs are, and then providing advice in case we needed to change the immigration settings and the border settings to bring people in. Media: A question from our news room: is the Government tracking to see if people who are close contacts of a case are complying with those 14-day self-isolation rules, and, if so, what’s that compliance like? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, at the moment, all those people are followed up daily with a phone call to check on what they’re doing, obviously, and also their health—if they have any symptoms and any welfare needs. It’s one of the areas we are looking at, as to whether that may need to be strengthened as we go into Alert Level 2—so perhaps shifting from phone calls to actual physical checks of people who are close contacts. Media: Does that suggest that sometimes, you know, the phone calls—the phone doesn’t get picked up and there are concerns that there might be non-compliance there? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: The feedback I have is that there’s very high levels of compliance and, in fact, if someone isn’t compliant, of course there is that opportunity for the medical officer of health to issue a section 70 notice and require them to go into supervised self-isolation. Media: Did police ever raise concerns with you that they did not have the legal power to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Sorry—did? Media: Did police ever raise concerns with you that they didn’t have the legal powers to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, they didn’t raise concerns but both ourselves and the police and Crown Law were very thoughtful about making sure that the section 70 notices that have been issued sequentially did provide a sound legal basis for the full range of expectations that we were putting on people, including the police powers to enforce those expectations. Media: The first section 70 notice you put out wasn’t until part-way through the lockdown, so were they not covered in that first part? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, our sense was they were. However, we felt that issuing a very detailed section 70 notice was the best way to just provide that assurance that there was the legal basis for them to exercise those powers. Media: Why was the decision made to use the Health Act rather than the civil defence Act in that case? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, actually, recalling also that there was a national emergency declared and that’s still actually in place, the fundamental reason we have put these very significant restrictions in place is because of a public health threat—the threat of a pandemic from an infectious agent. And so it’s very appropriate that we use these powers that are there under the Health Act 1956 and it was felt that was the best basis for providing a legal framework for the lockdown measures to be implemented. Media: But was there a point where police did not have that power to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not that I’m aware of, and, as I say, we were in very close discussion with Crown Law and with the police right through the lockdown and then as we moved into Alert Level 3 as well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, it’s just been revealed in Australia that Scott Morrison has invited Jacinda Ardern to participate in a national Cabinet meeting tomorrow. What aspects of New Zealand’s response would you be keen for Jacinda Ardern to share with Australian leaders? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, you probably know I can’t pre-empt what the PM will discuss with her counterpart. I’m aware—and we’ve been providing and preparing advice for the Prime Minister for that discussion and she may well reveal later today or indeed tomorrow after the discussion exactly which issues were discussed. But, as you can imagine, of great interest, of course, is the idea of a trans-Tasman bubble, which has been well canvassed already. Media: Dr Bloomfield, is two weeks one incubation period and just that really enough time to figure out whether the level 3 restrictions, and perhaps people breaching even those, in terms of how relaxed they’re getting, would lead to more transmission? I mean, if someone was infected at one of these parties over the weekend, we might not see that until Tuesday or Wednesday of next week if the symptoms take long enough to come up. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, that is correct, and later this week we will know if there are new infections emerging, but we also, of course, will look back over the preceding four weeks, remembering that there wasn’t a bright line when we entered Alert Level 3, so we, looking back, will be able to look and see what is the pattern of cases over that full four-week period—so two incubation periods—and are there any new cases emerging. It may well be, even if the decision is made to go into Alert Level 2 and that progresses, that we may still see cases emerging, and that’s why it’s very important. That’s why we maintain our really strong posture around wide testing, surveillance testing, rapid contact tracing, and isolation of contacts if we do see those cases emerging. Media: Did those people that partied over the weekend, did they jeopardise our chance of moving into level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I hope not. Media: Dr Bloomfield, if we were to open up the domestic travel again to all New Zealanders under level 2, would that make you nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Sorry? Until we’re under level 2 or once we’re under level 2? Media: Sorry, under level 2. If we were to reopen domestic travel to all New Zealanders, would that make you nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m not sure it would make me nervous. What I think it applies to, whether it’s domestic travel or other elements of what we want to do under Alert Level 2, which is open up more retail settings. There is a whole raft of things that would come into play. What would make me nervous is if we were not maintaining those core sort of public health behaviours that we will need to maintain around particularly physical distancing, hygiene, and not going out if people have any symptoms. So those are the things, not specific settings. It’s routinely making sure those are being observed in whatever the setting, including if it’s domestic travel. Media: Just on that, what do you think is the bigger concern—opening up the domestic airlines and things so people can move around, or more retail being open and people congregating more at, you know, restaurants and those sorts of things? What’s the bigger concern for you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So none of them are a concern per se. Perhaps, to just go back to my previous response, the concern would be if we were relaxing, you know, the sorts of things we have now started to do more routinely around physical distancing and around, you know, not going out, either to work or to visit others if we have symptoms of a respiratory infection. Media: Is there a bigger risk, though, that comes with one of them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not specifically. I think, again, the risks lies in the way that we go about those activities. And what we’ve seen in retail settings that have already opened up is that they can, for the most part—and there was some learning along the way— undertake activities in a way that actually does support the core public health principles that are underneath that apply, and also supports the behaviours that we need everybody to continue into Alert Level 3 and 2. Perhaps one more question if there is one. Media: Dr Bloomfield, just on a case where it says that the travel was from the Cook Islands, are you contact tracing that case of the woman down in Nelson and, obviously, trying to mitigate a bit of panic in the Cook Islands where they have zero cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, two things. First of all, we were communicating on the day that this was found out—well, the local public health officer was communicating with my counterpart, the equivalent of director-general in the Cooks, about that case. What’s not clear is whether that infection might have happened as part of the travel back from the Cooks. In fact, it’s very unlikely, because the Cooks hasn’t had any cases—but whether it happened in another setting during the period after that person arrived back. And so that’s more likely. So I don’t think it puts in jeopardy anything that might have happened in the Cooks there. I think there was one further question. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the influenza pandemic plan mentions SARS four times, including once in the glossary, and no other coronavirus mentions at all in there. Is there a case after this crisis abates for us to be more prepared for a wider range of pandemic threats, not just influenza but coronaviruses or re-emerging pathogens as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I think there is. And one of the things we’ve had to do, and I think we’ve done effectively, is adapt our overall approach and influenza pandemic plan because we saw this was a different virus behaving in different ways in terms of its infectivity, in terms of the seriousness of infection in some people, and in terms of the mortality rate. So, yes, I think one of the things we will want to do will be to look at our pandemic plan so that it’s got more flexibility, depending on the nature of the agent that it’s responding to. Media: Was the plan not as flexible as you wanted it to be in retrospect? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the plan’s good in that it provides a framework and it’s still, I think, been a very good basis for our preparation and for our initial response. The key difference is that we made that early decision not to move into a manage it - type phase, and that was the key decision. But our actions under “Keep It Out” and “Stamp It Out” are really still very consistent with what is in the pandemic influenza plan, except we’ve taken them a lot further than perhaps happened 10 years ago with the swine flu pandemic, of course, because a much stronger response at the border, and then we’ve upped our capacity and capability around contact tracing in response to the differences between the two viruses. Media: In regions which appear to be completely coronavirus-free, is there an argument for a kind of case by case basis for relaxing of the rules for things that we’ve talked about before, like visiting people in hospital after surgeries and the like on compassionate grounds under level 3? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not at this point. I think it’s important—as I said, we may still see cases emerging later this week, and there’s no guarantee they won’t emerge even in those regions that don’t currently have a case. So now is the time for us to just maintain that vigilance right across the country. And as we move into Alert Level 2, that’s where, in the future, there may be a case for some regional differentiation. Media: And what kind of numbers should people be looking to at the end of the week in that kind of critical period that you’re looking at? What kind of case numbers should people be looking at to go, ah, that suggests we might move into 2 or not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, again, I’m not going to pre-empt Cabinet’s decision, but what we will be looking for is low case numbers and knowing where all those cases are coming from. So being able to link them to our existing cases—that’s what’s critical. Thank you very much. --- Section Separator --- Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to this afternoon’s briefing. Today we have no new cases of COVID-19 to report. One probable case already known to us has been reclassified as confirmed, following a positive test in the last few days, so that is a probable case that has now become a confirmed case. It means there’s no change to the overall total of confirmed and probable cases, which remains at 1,487. I’m pleased to say there are no additional deaths to report. So our total number of confirmed cases rises by one and is now 1,137, and this is the number that we continue to report to the World Health Organisation. Yesterday, being a Sunday, there were a lower number of tests—2,473 tests completed, a combined total to date 152,696 tests completed. Of our cases, 1,276 are now reported as recovered, an increase of 10 on yesterday, and now 86 percent of our total confirmed and probable cases are considered recovered. Today there are seven people in hospital and none in ICU. We still have the 16 significant clusters and three of these are now considered closed as there is no longer transmission of the virus within the cluster, and that’s a period of two incubation periods, so a total of 28 days since those three clusters had a case. Clearly, these are encouraging figures today, but it is just one moment in time. The real test is later this week when we factor in the incubation period for the virus and the time it takes for people to display symptoms, which is generally five to six days after exposure. So that’s when we will have an indication if there are any new cases coming through that might be emerging in the community as a result of our shift from level 4 to level 3. We cannot afford to squander all the hard work and effort of the past weeks. We did see at the weekend that it can be easy to start slackening off, and we need to maintain discipline and keep pushing on and sustain the advantage that we have fought so hard for. Today I also want to commend the work on an initiative involving students and staff at Auckland’s Marist College. The staff and students will be offered the opportunity to undergo free COVID-19 testing this week in a joint initiative between the public health unit and DHB and the school. While only half of the 94 cases associated with the Marist cluster were directly associated with the college—the others were a result of transmission within families or to others in the community—it’s important that the wider school community is given the opportunity to be tested. The testing has been agreed in a discussion between the school board, the Ministry of Education, the Auckland metro district health boards, and the Auckland Regional Public Health Service. I’m strongly supportive of this initiative and look forward to following the progress of it during the week. I also want to address the topic of flu vaccination. This is something we’ve been plugging hard this year, not because the flu vaccine gives any protection whatsoever against COVID19 but because by vaccinating as many New Zealanders as possible, in particular our older people and vulnerable New Zealanders, that reduces the likelihood that they will get the flu and then suffer the sorts of illness that might put them in hospital. It has been a record year for flu vaccines, with more than 1.35 million vaccines already distributed out to general practices, pharmacies, workplaces, and other providers, and this is more than has ever been distributed in an entire flu season here in New Zealand previously. And you will be aware, because we’ve talked about it, that an additional 400,000 doses of vaccine were procured by PHARMAC for this year, before the COVID-19 pandemic had even appeared on our horizon. It’s been important for us to prioritise those vulnerable groups early on. Hence we started the vaccination campaign two weeks early and we continued to just prioritise and make it available for those groups that are publicly funded for a full month. I can reassure those of us who are relatively healthy that there is a very low level of influenza circulating in our community, and I’ve pointed this out before—that our flu tracker and our monitoring of influenza-like illness is very, very low; a direct result of the period of lockdown we have been under, which has stopped all sorts of respiratory viruses circulating in the community. So the current travel restrictions and restrictions under alert level 3 will be continuing that. I’m pleased to say that over 451,000 people over 65 have been vaccinated already this year, exceeding the total number vaccinated in the whole campaign last year in this age group. And, likewise, more Māori over 65 have been vaccinated in the past five weeks than in the entire year of vaccination last year. Nearly 1.4 million doses of vaccine have been distributed to providers, and, as of 30 April, around 700,000 of those were recorded on our National Immunisation Register as administered. So there are still approximately 700,000 doses of flu vaccine out in the community. Some will have been administered but not yet entered on the National Immunisation Register and others are waiting to be administered around our one thousand or so general practices, several hundred pharmacies that have accredited vaccinators, and a range of other providers. And, of course, there have been challenges around distribution of stock, but any GP or pharmacy that has run out of stock at this point and still have at-risk people requiring vaccination should get in touch with their local immunisation coordinator, who have been coordinating the process of redistribution and/or prioritising access to the next shipment of vaccines when it arrives. Just putting that in context, remember that there is only 1 percent of the pre - COVID-19 number of international flights being undertaken. So we’ve worked hard to get a priority for those next two shipments of further vaccine, which are arriving this week and next week. To conclude with three important messages: first of all, if anyone has cold or flu-like symptoms, however mild, please do seek advice and ask about getting a test as quickly as possible. This is the point in time when we want to find any residual infections that could be COVID-19 out in the community. Please also check that your phone details are up to date with your GP practice. That will help if there’s any need for us to be able to contact you as part of contact tracing. And I guess my final important message is to thank all of you, as I have before, in the media for the important role you have played over the last three months in supporting our collective efforts to keep the public informed, to ask the important questions and the hard questions, and to ensure that we are being held to account for answering those. Thank you very much, and I’m open now to further questions. --- Section Separator --- Media: Dr Bloomfield, have you talked to your counterpart or health counterparts in Australia around their processes and how you can match our processes to theirs if there was some kind of trans-Tasman bubble? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, we are in constant dialogue with our Australian counterparts. And it seems to me one of the things that will be very important if there is an agreement at the highest level to have a trans-Tasman bubble, that we are working very closely with our Australian counterparts on what those key public health pillars would need to be around how we are testing for, identifying, and isolating cases and contacts, and also our position around contact tracing and our ability to exchange information smoothly to ensure that any contacts or potential contacts could be followed up if they had travelled in either direction. Media: Are you confident, though, that you could get there with Australia—that they have the kind of health system that would, you know, reach that standard for you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think we would need to be confident in each other’s capabilities in that regard, and my sense is—if I reflect how closely we have worked together over the last three months, right from the early days and trying to go very much in tandem with the range of moves we’ve made, whether it was around the border, around case definitions and sharing of information—I’m confident we could continue that to support a trans-Tasman bubble arrangement if that’s what the Governments agree. Media: Now that we’ve reached zero new cases, can you explain why we still need to stay in level 3 for the full two weeks? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, and the important thing here, of course, is that we are still wanting to be sure that there is no undetected community transmission out in our communities. We’ve had a week of testing out in the community to identify—so testing asymptomatic people in a range of settings, and that continues this week. And our public health units and DHBs have just got some very clear advice, detailed advice, around the sorts of environments they should be testing in, the numbers of people—for example, to the level of detail around which aged residential care facilities, how many people they should be sampling in each, supermarket workers they should be sampling, which people they should be sampling in healthcare settings as well. So reflecting on the incubation period of this virus—and it’s really later this week that we will be confident if we are or are not seeing new cases popping up in the community. So that’s why it’s very important we maintain the current posture. Media: How concerned are you about the long tail like we saw at Marist, for example? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, it’s clear from looking at other countries that are in a similar position, or have been in a similar position, there is a very long tail, and what we’re trying to do now, of course, is make sure we are, in effect, finding any potential additional cases that are associated with current cases or clusters. And what I can say, having just had an update on some of the cases that we had in the last week or so, where it wasn’t immediately clear what the exposure was, there has been wide testing around them of their work and family contacts and even more widely, and none of that testing has shown up with any further cases, which is reassuring, but we want to just make sure we are covering off that long tail. It’s been very interesting to see that what we’ve had in New Zealand mirrors what other countries have found as well. Media: How real is the risk that people look at the fact that there are no new cases and celebrate this news and think that we’re out of the woods and then go out there and breach the guidelines? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, it is a risk, and that’s why I’ve emphasised that this is just a point in time and it remains very important—very important—for us to maintain a discipline around this and be vigilant. We’re now a week away from Cabinet making a decision about a move to Alert Level 2. And I think both the Prime Minister and I have been clear that it’s not just the number of cases or the pattern but the level to which people are taking seriously the expectations, particularly around physical distancing, hygiene measures, and not really squandering the advantage we have created for ourselves. Media: Likewise, this is cause for celebration, isn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m sorry? Media: And likewise, this is cause for celebration, though, isn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It is cause for celebration. I think it’s important that we reflect that it is symbolic of the effort that everybody has put in. So I don’t want to downplay that, but, once again, you know, we need to be continuing vigilance. So, yes, it is important we all collectively acknowledge this is the first day when we’ve had no new cases, and we want to keep it that way. Media: How many cases are you still investigating in terms of where they were? There’s two last week—I’m not sure if they’re being included. How many, do you think, are still possible community transmission? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So there are still the two, and just to describe a couple of those cases we had last week—one which was in Nelson-Marlborough and one which had been found through our surveillance testing of the workforce at Auckland Airport. In both instances, there was an explanation related to overseas travel some time ago, and it’s likely that the late positive test reflects the fact that these people had been infected and there were still fragments of the virus that showed up on the test. But it doesn’t necessarily mean they’re infective, and, more importantly, in testing all the people around them, there are no further positive tests. So that’s what we’re really looking for, even those cases where we can‘t necessarily fully explain where the infection might have occurred. Media: Dr Bloomfield, what’s the Government’s thoughts in terms of these sort of tests that can be carried out on location in a matter of minutes or hours as opposed to having to be sent to a lab? Is that something that you see any promise in or see a use for in our current situation? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So that’s a development we are watching carefully. What we’re most interested in at the moment, of course, is having the most accurate testing, and I think the point of care testing is still a bit like the antibody testing—there’s still questions about reliability and so it’s one to watch. Where it may be useful, if we can get some reliable point of care testing, could be, for example, in more remote locations, where it would speed up the turn-around time or, secondly, it may play a role in supporting us at the border and in particular with people who are flying out and are going to a country on business, for example, where they’re required to have a test. It could play a role there, but, again, at this stage, not sufficiently reliable and we will stick with the fact that we’ve got very good testing capacity right across the country, and we continue to work hard to make sure the turnaround times are quick on those. Media: This approach in public health, would you permit nurses to work on a COVID ward one day and another virus-free ward with high-risk elderly patients the next day? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I know there’s been some concern around this at Waitakere Hospital, and there’s been a response from one of the clinical leaders up there in the Auckland metro district health boards. I would rely on the advice of the clinicians, remembering that staff inside our hospitals day in, day out—particularly in the intensive care units—are working with, and caring for, people who have a whole range of infections. So the practice that the clinicians and the clinical experts are advising on there is based on experience and based on their very best advice. So I would defer to those clinical specialists for their advice. Media: But other public health experts we’ve spoken to are horrified that Waitakere did that. Would you agree with that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, again, I would be looking to the clinicians there who are working in those settings. They’re experts, and they would be providing the advice, and I would imagine that, like me, they would consider that what would be paramount would be ensuring that both staff and other patients in the hospital were kept safe. And hence I know that they will have very detailed procedures around the use of PPE, washing uniforms, and so on that would support safe practice. Media: That seems to defy common sense, though, when it’s such a virulent thing you’re dealing with, to have people moving in between wards with high-risk patients. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, again, I just point to the fact that, like us, I know that the teams leading the response up there rely on and put a lot of stock on getting the best possible clinical advice and that that is based on experience, of course. And, as I say, people working in all sorts of healthcare settings are dealing with infected—people with infections, a whole range of infections, in their usual daily practice, and that would be what they are basing their advice on. My expertise isn’t public health. I wouldn’t be second-guessing the advice that infectious disease specialists were giving. I think they are best placed to give that advice. Media: Dr Bloomfield, this approach that the Auckland DHB has taken around testing everyone that had any involvement with this Marist cluster—all students, teachers etc.— would you expect to see other DHBs take that on board with the other clusters that we have, and do that wider testing across other clusters as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I think there’s a very specific approach being taken with the Marist cluster, in particular the decision around reopening the school and to help inform the school, the students, and, of course, the school community more widely. In fact, in each of the clusters, in particular those ones in aged residential care facilities, there’s been quite wide testing of non-symptomatic residents and staff and also family members to help support control of those clusters. So certainly over the last couple of weeks, as we’ve learnt more about the transmission of this virus, we’ve moved much more to working with the DHBs around quite wide testing. And even in the case of individual cases, some individual cases we have seen where we’ve tested—for example, there was one in Hawke’s Bay where there was a resident at a campground there, or a holiday park. And testing has been offered to and conducted and most of the people living in that who were wanting to be tested—everyone who was offered a test was tested. Media: So you’re confident, then, that where there’s been any sort of build up or reaching that cluster point that there has been substantial testing in all of those areas already, based on rest homes, etc., or are there still some areas where we have had clusters identified where there hasn’t been that wider testing go on? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, for the last two or three weeks we’ve been advising on working closely with the public health units about quite wide testing of asymptomatic people, and I talk about this notion of putting a wide ring-fence around these clusters, and particularly in the ARC settings, but it’s also being used with some of these other clusters as well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, areas like Tai Rāwhiti in the West Coast haven’t had any new cases in two weeks. They’ve done a lot of community testing. Would they have a good argument, areas like that, for those regional bubbles we’ve talked about? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: They may do in the future. I think at the moment our advice, and I think the position, is we maintain a single national approach. And the advantage, of course, for those regional bubbles would be if that allowed interregional travel in particular, but otherwise it may allow some wider commerce retail and so on in those bubbles. We’re into the second week of Alert Level 3. As I say, we will not know until later this week whether that loosening of the restrictions from level 4 to level 3 anywhere, even if they haven’t had or have had cases recently—we won’t know if there are other cases out there that might spring up. So I think it’s the right position currently to keep everybody under the level 3. Regional differentiation may play a role in the future, but not at this point. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how far away is a decision on a contact-tracing app and do we need one to be in play here in New Zealand to move to level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So on the first question, we’re currently finalising advice for Cabinet and it will be a Cabinet decision around both the functionality of and the timing of the use of an app and when that is made available. Do we need it to go into Alert Level 2? No, it’s quite clear from our experience here and even if we look at other countries that the mainstay of being able to support a move to ease restrictions is having that really good core contact-tracing system in place, which we’ve been working hard to strengthen. The app may play a role—or an app may play a role in supporting that, but it will be additional to what that core capacity is there. But not having an app in place won’t be a constraint to moving to level 2. Media: And in terms of breaches, is there a certain threshold for us not being able to move to level 2 because we can’t be certain that people haven’t been mingling? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t think there’s a level, but I think that it’s very important for all New Zealanders just to maintain the current expectations, and, you know, we did really well through Alert Level 4. We’re nearly there but let’s not slacken off now. We’re not putting a number on it but it will be clear if there is widespread behaviour, that could be creating risk, and I think that will definitely factor into the advice and the decision that Cabinet will make next week. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the New Zealand Private Surgical Hospitals Association has come out and said that 30,000 elective surgeries were postponed over level 4. How are we going to be able to cope with that backlog and what’s being planned at the moment to do that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, look, there’s a great deal of planning and action under way because we’re already into Alert Level 3 by a week. And that work is happening with the private hospitals because, clearly, they’re going to be an important part of catching up on that surgery and other procedures that were postponed. So, yes, this is the big challenge for the system—to do as much of that work as possible while still dealing with any acute care needs that come through the door and, of course, maintain vigilance and keeping things safe from a COVID-19 perspective. So there’s a challenge ahead but all the DHBs are focused very hard and on working with private sector to ensure we catch up on that backlog. Media: How long do you think it will take us to catch up? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Oh, look, it will clearly take some months. Media: So months rather than years? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Ah, well, obviously, we’d be aiming for months, because remembering that what we aim to do, of course, in a non - COVID-19 environment is to provide people with their first specialist assessment within a four-month period and then, if they’re deemed to need a procedure, to provide that within four months. So the aspiration is to get back to within those time frames again as quickly as possible. Media: Can I just clarify what the instruction for elective surgeries for over-70s and obese patients are during level 3 and level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know about level 2, but I did hear this morning, yes, the description around—in Alert Level 3, of course, when we still are in a situation where there may be risk to older people and people with pre-existing conditions, if their surgery can be deferred, then the advice is to defer that to avoid exposing them to any potential risk of COVID-19. Once we move down alert levels, then clearly there’s a much lower risk and then that stance wouldn’t continue. Media: [Inaudible] nurses moving between the COVID ward and other wards, each DHB seems to have different rules on this. Why are there not ministry guidelines on best practice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, there are ministry guidelines on best practice for a lot of things, including use of PPE. But also recall that each hospital is different in terms of staffing, the sorts of services they provide, the way their wards are configured, the number of staff on shifts, the seriousness of the illnesses that they may be dealing with, so it’s absolutely appropriate that each hospital works out what is the best way to ensure that they are keeping staff safe, patients safe, while being able to run rosters to provide care—not just for those people with COVID-19 but all the other patients who are in the hospital as well. Media: But in this case we now have, what, 57 staff stood down so it doesn’t seem like the best approach, does it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the approach to stand the staff down to head off any risk of further transmission is absolutely the right approach, and this is what we have done where we have had other cases like this. I, again, defer to the fact that the clinicians were actively leading the process of providing the advice, and they will continue to. In so saying, just as we have done in other settings, as we have learnt more in aged residential care about the nature of these infections and the way they transmit, we have constantly reviewed and updated our approach and our guidance. Media: Dr Bloomfield, Cabinet’s taking a look at what the rules will be at level 2. Have you given any particular advice about that, and when you balance the sort of “no new cases today” with the somewhat reckless behaviour, I guess, from a minority over the weekend, what sort of reckons do you have, or what have you suggested, based on that around those level 2 rules? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can say, yes, of course we’ve provided advice into the issues around Alert Level 2 that Cabinet is considering today, and the Prime Minister will be able to update you on what Cabinet’s consideration was later today, but I can’t second-guess or pre-empt that. Media: But in terms of your own advice, given that we’re down to zero, but given you have been quite clear that people are not doing what’s been asked of them at level 3— some people—what’s the advice for level 2 to sort of balance those two things? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think that advice will be the advice we’ll provide and input into for Cabinet for next week’s decision. What they’re considering today is what the Alert Level 2 looks like in more detail, so that’s not the decision about whether to move to Alert Level 2. I think the balance of where the cases are coming from, the pattern, whether we are seeing new, emergent cases, and also the compliance with level 3 will be something they will consider next week. Media: So, just to clarify, you don’t give any specific advice about what level 2 may or may not look like—you just give the numbers, so to speak? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We’ve given advice—very clear advice—that is being considered by Cabinet today about what level 2 looks like, along with all our agencies across Government. That’s what’s being considered today. What’s for next week is: is it appropriate for us to move to level 2? That’s the decision that Cabinet will be considering next week. Media: On the 57 staff stood down from Waitakere Hospital, has that created any staffing issues or shortages? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not as far as I know, and I did speak to the chief executive over the weekend. So they’re obviously having to move staff around to accommodate that and, indeed, move some of the patients, but that’s something that they will manage there. I think it’s appropriate they’ve taken a precautionary approach, and I know they will be doing some wide testing just to ensure that there has been no further transmission. Media: Dr Bloomfield, given the current border closures and the high proportion of migrants in our health sector, is the ministry worried about the long-term implications of staffing the health system if the borders remain closed for a long time, as they seem to be? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, one of the things we’ve been doing right from the start, as I think you know, is canvassing people who might have been out of the workforce for a range of reasons, and over 9,000 people have registered to be available to support the health system, if required. So my sense is we are able to manage with what we have got here, I’m sure, for some time. However, we will also be looking at, if there are emergent needs—including, for example, in the home and community support sector or aged residential care, where quite a number of the workers are from overseas—we would be working with the wider sector to find out what their needs are, and then providing advice in case we needed to change the immigration settings and the border settings to bring people in. Media: A question from our news room: is the Government tracking to see if people who are close contacts of a case are complying with those 14-day self-isolation rules, and, if so, what’s that compliance like? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, at the moment, all those people are followed up daily with a phone call to check on what they’re doing, obviously, and also their health—if they have any symptoms and any welfare needs. It’s one of the areas we are looking at, as to whether that may need to be strengthened as we go into Alert Level 2—so perhaps shifting from phone calls to actual physical checks of people who are close contacts. Media: Does that suggest that sometimes, you know, the phone calls—the phone doesn’t get picked up and there are concerns that there might be non-compliance there? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: The feedback I have is that there’s very high levels of compliance and, in fact, if someone isn’t compliant, of course there is that opportunity for the medical officer of health to issue a section 70 notice and require them to go into supervised self-isolation. Media: Did police ever raise concerns with you that they did not have the legal power to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Sorry—did? Media: Did police ever raise concerns with you that they didn’t have the legal powers to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, they didn’t raise concerns but both ourselves and the police and Crown Law were very thoughtful about making sure that the section 70 notices that have been issued sequentially did provide a sound legal basis for the full range of expectations that we were putting on people, including the police powers to enforce those expectations. Media: The first section 70 notice you put out wasn’t until part-way through the lockdown, so were they not covered in that first part? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, our sense was they were. However, we felt that issuing a very detailed section 70 notice was the best way to just provide that assurance that there was the legal basis for them to exercise those powers. Media: Why was the decision made to use the Health Act rather than the civil defence Act in that case? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, actually, recalling also that there was a national emergency declared and that’s still actually in place, the fundamental reason we have put these very significant restrictions in place is because of a public health threat—the threat of a pandemic from an infectious agent. And so it’s very appropriate that we use these powers that are there under the Health Act 1956 and it was felt that was the best basis for providing a legal framework for the lockdown measures to be implemented. Media: But was there a point where police did not have that power to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not that I’m aware of, and, as I say, we were in very close discussion with Crown Law and with the police right through the lockdown and then as we moved into Alert Level 3 as well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, it’s just been revealed in Australia that Scott Morrison has invited Jacinda Ardern to participate in a national Cabinet meeting tomorrow. What aspects of New Zealand’s response would you be keen for Jacinda Ardern to share with Australian leaders? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, you probably know I can’t pre-empt what the PM will discuss with her counterpart. I’m aware—and we’ve been providing and preparing advice for the Prime Minister for that discussion and she may well reveal later today or indeed tomorrow after the discussion exactly which issues were discussed. But, as you can imagine, of great interest, of course, is the idea of a trans-Tasman bubble, which has been well canvassed already. Media: Dr Bloomfield, is two weeks one incubation period and just that really enough time to figure out whether the level 3 restrictions, and perhaps people breaching even those, in terms of how relaxed they’re getting, would lead to more transmission? I mean, if someone was infected at one of these parties over the weekend, we might not see that until Tuesday or Wednesday of next week if the symptoms take long enough to come up. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, that is correct, and later this week we will know if there are new infections emerging, but we also, of course, will look back over the preceding four weeks, remembering that there wasn’t a bright line when we entered Alert Level 3, so we, looking back, will be able to look and see what is the pattern of cases over that full four-week period—so two incubation periods—and are there any new cases emerging. It may well be, even if the decision is made to go into Alert Level 2 and that progresses, that we may still see cases emerging, and that’s why it’s very important. That’s why we maintain our really strong posture around wide testing, surveillance testing, rapid contact tracing, and isolation of contacts if we do see those cases emerging. Media: Did those people that partied over the weekend, did they jeopardise our chance of moving into level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I hope not. Media: Dr Bloomfield, if we were to open up the domestic travel again to all New Zealanders under level 2, would that make you nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Sorry? Until we’re under level 2 or once we’re under level 2? Media: Sorry, under level 2. If we were to reopen domestic travel to all New Zealanders, would that make you nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m not sure it would make me nervous. What I think it applies to, whether it’s domestic travel or other elements of what we want to do under Alert Level 2, which is open up more retail settings. There is a whole raft of things that would come into play. What would make me nervous is if we were not maintaining those core sort of public health behaviours that we will need to maintain around particularly physical distancing, hygiene, and not going out if people have any symptoms. So those are the things, not specific settings. It’s routinely making sure those are being observed in whatever the setting, including if it’s domestic travel. Media: Just on that, what do you think is the bigger concern—opening up the domestic airlines and things so people can move around, or more retail being open and people congregating more at, you know, restaurants and those sorts of things? What’s the bigger concern for you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So none of them are a concern per se. Perhaps, to just go back to my previous response, the concern would be if we were relaxing, you know, the sorts of things we have now started to do more routinely around physical distancing and around, you know, not going out, either to work or to visit others if we have symptoms of a respiratory infection. Media: Is there a bigger risk, though, that comes with one of them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not specifically. I think, again, the risks lies in the way that we go about those activities. And what we’ve seen in retail settings that have already opened up is that they can, for the most part—and there was some learning along the way— undertake activities in a way that actually does support the core public health principles that are underneath that apply, and also supports the behaviours that we need everybody to continue into Alert Level 3 and 2. Perhaps one more question if there is one. Media: Dr Bloomfield, just on a case where it says that the travel was from the Cook Islands, are you contact tracing that case of the woman down in Nelson and, obviously, trying to mitigate a bit of panic in the Cook Islands where they have zero cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, two things. First of all, we were communicating on the day that this was found out—well, the local public health officer was communicating with my counterpart, the equivalent of director-general in the Cooks, about that case. What’s not clear is whether that infection might have happened as part of the travel back from the Cooks. In fact, it’s very unlikely, because the Cooks hasn’t had any cases—but whether it happened in another setting during the period after that person arrived back. And so that’s more likely. So I don’t think it puts in jeopardy anything that might have happened in the Cooks there. I think there was one further question. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the influenza pandemic plan mentions SARS four times, including once in the glossary, and no other coronavirus mentions at all in there. Is there a case after this crisis abates for us to be more prepared for a wider range of pandemic threats, not just influenza but coronaviruses or re-emerging pathogens as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I think there is. And one of the things we’ve had to do, and I think we’ve done effectively, is adapt our overall approach and influenza pandemic plan because we saw this was a different virus behaving in different ways in terms of its infectivity, in terms of the seriousness of infection in some people, and in terms of the mortality rate. So, yes, I think one of the things we will want to do will be to look at our pandemic plan so that it’s got more flexibility, depending on the nature of the agent that it’s responding to. Media: Was the plan not as flexible as you wanted it to be in retrospect? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the plan’s good in that it provides a framework and it’s still, I think, been a very good basis for our preparation and for our initial response. The key difference is that we made that early decision not to move into a manage it - type phase, and that was the key decision. But our actions under “Keep It Out” and “Stamp It Out” are really still very consistent with what is in the pandemic influenza plan, except we’ve taken them a lot further than perhaps happened 10 years ago with the swine flu pandemic, of course, because a much stronger response at the border, and then we’ve upped our capacity and capability around contact tracing in response to the differences between the two viruses. Media: In regions which appear to be completely coronavirus-free, is there an argument for a kind of case by case basis for relaxing of the rules for things that we’ve talked about before, like visiting people in hospital after surgeries and the like on compassionate grounds under level 3? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not at this point. I think it’s important—as I said, we may still see cases emerging later this week, and there’s no guarantee they won’t emerge even in those regions that don’t currently have a case. So now is the time for us to just maintain that vigilance right across the country. And as we move into Alert Level 2, that’s where, in the future, there may be a case for some regional differentiation. Media: And what kind of numbers should people be looking to at the end of the week in that kind of critical period that you’re looking at? What kind of case numbers should people be looking at to go, ah, that suggests we might move into 2 or not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, again, I’m not going to pre-empt Cabinet’s decision, but what we will be looking for is low case numbers and knowing where all those cases are coming from. So being able to link them to our existing cases—that’s what’s critical. Thank you very much. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of the daily media conference 4 May
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the daily media conference 5 May 2020
Home Updates Transcript of the daily media conference 5 May --- Section Separator --- Kia ora koutou katoa. Before we begin, I’ll take the usual practice of handing over to Dr Bloomfield first, to give us all an update on today’s numbers. Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we have no new cases of COVID-19 to report. In addition, one case that was previously categorised as a probable case has been changed, and is now defined as not a case. So our overall total of confirmed and probable cases decreases by one to 1,486. Our total number of confirmed cases therefore remains at 1,137, and we will continue to report this number to the World Health Organisation, as we do update them each day. Yesterday, there were 3,232 tests processed at our laboratories around the country and the combined total to date is 155,928 tests. Of our cases, 1,302 are reported as recovered, which represents a total of 88 percent of our confirmed and probable cases. Today, there are four people in hospital and none of these is in ICU. There are no additional deaths to report. We still have the 16 significant clusters around New Zealand, with three now closed, as I’ve previously reported. One existing cluster—this is the St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home—has today had five new cases linked to it. It’s important to note these are not new cases; rather, what has happened is following further investigation, cases from what was previously considered a separate, smaller cluster have been linked to the St Margaret’s cluster, and those have been merged. These are existing cases, and none of them are patients at Waitakere Hospital. Obviously, having zero new cases of COVID-19 to report for a second day in a row is very encouraging, and all New Zealanders should feel pleased with their efforts—I certainly do—and of what we have achieved together over these last weeks. Of course, we must stick to the plan. The worst thing we could do now is celebrate success early before the full-time whistle blows, and jeopardise the gains we have made. Stay the course, stay in your bubble, and don’t squander what we have achieved by giving the virus a chance that it will only too readily accept if we do that. I just want to talk a bit about exemptions. We require anyone entering the country, as you know, to go into a 14-day period of either quarantine or managed isolation—the former if they are symptomatic. To date, since 20 March, around 6,000 returned travellers to New Zealand have gone into managed isolation or quarantine, and there are currently 179 people in quarantine facilities and just under 2,800 people in managed isolation. These precautions are obviously to prevent the virus coming into our country and to ensure that all New Zealanders are protected. There is, of course, a process for requesting an exemption, including on compassionate grounds, and the ministry has to date received 24 such requests that relate to a dying relative. As you know, there has been a judicial review of one of those requests which last Friday resulted in the court intervening, and a personal visit was organised. As a result of that judicial review, I’ve asked our team to review previous similar requests to ensure that they followed the correct process and take into account the judge’s findings. I should also point out that it won’t be the same team doing that review of those cases, but they are being done by a separate team that is in the National Crisis Management Centre, which considers all those requests for exemption for domestic travel. So they are being done by an entirely separate group of people. The review started today. I have asked for it to be completed as soon as possible this week. Today is International Midwives’ Day, and I want to shout out to all the midwives who work in Aotearoa New Zealand as both lead maternity carers in the community and our core midwives in hospitals and our primary birthing units. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou. There are about 3,200 of these essential front-line workers and they undertake important work across our communities. And during the period of lockdown, around 6,000 babies were delivered; many, if not all, with the help of those midwives. So once again, I want to acknowledge the wonderful work they do, not just today but each day. Today is also World Hand Hygiene Day. Now, that’s very apposite at this time, but I also should point out that every day at the moment should be World Hand Hygiene Day, and it’s a very important reminder today of the importance of what is a very simple action that prevents passing on any infection but, in particular, at the moment, greatly reduces the risk of passing on the COVID-19 infection. And, fittingly this year, the campaign theme is “SAVE LIVES: Clean Your Hands”. Prime Minister, I’m happy to leave it there and hand back to you. Thank you very much, Dr Bloomfield. Can I reiterate your thanks to those who are our midwives in our communities. And it is in times like this that we acknowledge the role that they play for many mums to be within their community and within their whānau, and they always go above and beyond. I just want to acknowledge that—and also, of course, world hand washing day as well. Achieving zero cases two days in a row is the result of New Zealanders demonstrating a level of commitment and discipline to our goal of winning the fight against COVID-19. That we can all be undeniably proud of. It points to our lockdown doing exactly what we’d planned it to do: break the chain of transmission. However, we know the virus can have a long tail, and that other cases can pop up; so, as we make our way through this week and head towards the level 3 review next week, my message remains: don’t do anything that snatches our potential victory at this point. One case at one gathering has led to multiple clusters, and the virus getting away on us can still happen. So my message remains the same for the remainder of the week: stay home, stay in your bubble, maintain physical distancing, and let’s double down this week to maintain this good run of numbers. I’m also mindful that I have seen positive numbers in other places before and it’s not always sustained; so we do need to still be cautious. Before I come to Australia, I want to give you a quick update on the progress of the support and assistance for businesses and their workers hit by COVID-19. This afternoon, the COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Bill will have its first reading in Parliament. It gives effect to a range of measures the Government has put in place to support businesses through the pandemic, including helping businesses facing insolvency to remain viable by hibernating existing debt until they can trade normally again; changes to the parental leave scheme to allow essential workers to return to work without being disadvantaged by losing entitlements to certain leave and payments; and changes that will allow the likes of the Heart Foundation and Coastguard and particularly the Countdown Kids Charitable Trust to process their fund-raising lotteries through email, phone, and electronic payments. These are just some of the inadvertent consequences of this extraordinary time we’re in and the resolution that we’re finding for those problems. The first reading of the bill will take place this afternoon. It will be referred to the Epidemic Response Committee for consideration and reported back to the House on Tuesday, 12 May. It will then move through the remaining legislative stages as quickly as possible. I’ve just come from a meeting of the Australian National Cabinet, a gathering of Australia’s state and federal leaders, to discuss our experience with COVID-19 on both sides of the Ditch, what we can learn from one another, and how we might be able to work together as we recover from this pandemic. The National Cabinet tends to meet in times of national crisis but, obviously, is infrequent—the last New Zealand Prime Minister to participate in such a meeting was Peter Fraser, who attended various meetings of Australia’s War Cabinet. Australians and New Zealanders travel across the Ditch more than they do anywhere else. New Zealand is Australia’s second-largest source of tourists after China, with 1.2 million visitors last year, and 1.6 million Aussies visited us. So we both stand to benefit from getting travel up and running again. Part of the reason for so much travel is that families and friendships, of course, span the Tasman. There are around 75,000 Australians in New Zealand, and more than half a million Kiwis in Australia. We’re also Australia’s largest export market by number of exporting firms—18,500 Aussie businesses trade with New Zealand, meaning we’re especially critical for Australian SMEs. So the case for increasing economic relations when safe is clear. I joined the meeting at the very, very beginning and, I should note, it is still under way, and so you’ll forgive me for not saying too much here at this point. But it is our intention to issue a statement at the conclusion of the National Cabinet in order to provide you all with an update of some of the issues discussed, and some of the potential outcomes of that meeting. But again, I would note such a discussion has only been possible as a result of the world-leading resolve from both sides of the Tasman to get the virus under control, and I do think that we should both be proud of the efforts that have been made and also, again, the demonstration of the important Anzac bond between us. On to a bit of Kiwi ingenuity, I’ve outlined a few innovations today that are helping to get our economy moving. I want to reflect on one of those in particular, and that is our vital supply chain—our transport sector. New ways of working have ensured our food and goods have been unpacked from ships and aircraft, loaded into trucks, and delivered to retailers, as well as kept our exports flowing. At Wellington CentrePort, the teams eliminated face-to-face contact and physical paperwork and they’ve adopted digital kiosks, radio comms, automated weigh-bridges, and virtual planning meetings. We’ve seen that same kind of adaptability in businesses up and down the country. Just one example is how two particular drivers, Greg and Sam, have willingly changed their hours of work and routines to match the different Interislander ferry timetables so they can continue to get frozen vegetables and chips from Ashburton to the ferries in Picton. I want to say thanks to Greg and Sam. Necessity breeds innovation and with social distancing and good hygiene likely of course to be with us for a long time to come, I wouldn’t be surprised if we keep seeing innovation throughout our alert levels and across the country. Happy to take your questions. Media: How would you characterise the enthusiasm for the trans-Tasman bubble from the Australian side and learning of course that New Zealand’s had two days of zero cases in a row, Australia’s had a couple of cases, largely built around one factory in Victoria, so it [Inaudible] how safe it might be. PM: Well, look, I think the important message there is that it doesn’t much, and that, I think, reinforces why we continue to share that message of “stay the course”. We have seen across the Ditch very low numbers, and then it can only take one outbreak in one workplace or one environment for you then suddenly to have an uptick, and that is why it is so important we stick with our restrictions. Look, the other takeaway for me—and I say this just generally, regardless—is actually there are a lot of similarities in the way that we have each tried to manage COVID and get on top of it and get back in control, and therefore there’s the same goals for both of us. Neither of us want cases of COVID coming between our countries. Neither of us would want the burden of that. So I think regardless of our future path we’ll be looking for ways to do it safely. That would be top of mind. Media: Prime Minister, was there any pushback from any of the state leaders? Did any of them feel that this push for a trans-Tasman travel bubble is too ambitious? Because many Australian states still have their state borders closed. PM: Yeah, and so, again, I do want to respect the fact that the National Cabinet is still meeting, and I do also want to respect the fact that we were meeting within in a Cabinet environment so that means, of course, you’ll know that when I’m talking about Cabinet often speak in very general terms. But again, this is not to get ahead of a decision. There are, obviously, within Australia, still restrictions around domestic travel and those are, ultimately, issues for Australia. I think, simply, the position that I would take on behalf of New Zealand is that when we feel comfortable and confident that we both won’t receive cases from Australia, but equally that we won’t export them, then that will be the time to move. Media: And can you just be clear on whether or not there would be a quarantine at either border? PM: Oh, the whole purpose of us discussing the possibility of having a bubble of sorts between us—a safe zone of travel—would be so that you wouldn’t have to have a quarantine attached. I think everyone would acknowledge that it would be prohibitive. People just wouldn’t travel if they had to stay on either side in quarantine for a two-week period and have to do the same again when you return. But there is still a lot of work to be done before we can progress an idea like that, but it’s obviously been floated because of the benefits that it would bring. Media: Taking into account all of those things—that we’d need to ensure that we weren’t further transmitting the virus—what kind of certainty or clarity can you give to New Zealanders in Australia who want to come home and see their families? When will they be able to do that? PM: Of course, I’d say to New Zealanders in Australia you can come home but, of course, at the moment we are still requiring that quarantine to keep you safe and to keep your family safe. But we are also actively considering what the future looks like for us. I’m very keen, of course, as I’ve always said, that the advantage we have—getting back in control of the virus—has been to try and get back to some form of normality. International travel won’t feel like that for some time, but if we can find a way to make it work with Australia, then that would give that sense of normality, if we can make it work. Media: [Inaudible] under level 2? PM: Oh, again, for really the alert level framework within New Zealand. Of course, for us it’s actually more the criteria of what we’re seeing on both sides of the Ditch with our cases, with our controls, and with our border management. Media: Can you see a situation where we would have a trans-Tasman bubble but exclude one of the Australian states, for example? PM: For me, it actually really comes down to a determination at a state and federal level by Australia. So that’s less of—other than, of course, we would have some expectations of when travel resumes, or if we’re able to establish this kind of bubble, making sure we were doing it safely for us. And so that would mean, if we were seeing a cluster of cases or growth in cases or outbreaks, that we would have to look at changing what we were doing and what we were receiving on our side. But, ultimately, I still see that as part of the arrangements that need to be made between the states and at a federal level. Media: Are you able to give us any more clarity on time frame? PM: No. No, I do want to let that meeting conclude, and, of course, at the moment what we’re discussing here is a concept that’s been floated for some time, but I do want to allow the meeting to at least draw to a conclusion before we go any further. Media: Prime Minister, what is your view on how the applications for compassionate exemptions have been handled, given every single one has been declined for that particular circumstance? PM: Yeah, look, I would anticipate that Dr Bloomfield probably has a similar view to me on this matter. The whole point of having the ability to apply for a compassionate exemption was so that we could assess the circumstances. There should be nothing automated about that. We should give genuine consideration for each of those applications, because they would only have been made because of dire circumstances. Now, I absolutely appreciate the reason we put that in place was we didn’t want double grief. We didn’t want a situation where people entered into a risky situation for them and their families, but, equally, we wanted to give them a chance to ask, to see if there was a way it could be managed. Media: Can you clarify the situation for people wanting to travel within New Zealand, rather than coming from overseas, and being in quarantine, and is that a lower threshold? PM: Sorry, what was that? Media: If people have a dying relative in another part of the country— PM: Yes. Media: —would there be a lower threshold for allowance to go— PM: And that’s some of the kinds of scenarios that, of course, then you would want considered when looking at some applications, as to the degree to which it can be conducted safely. You see the conditions for the person who made a case to the court were very, very specific about private residence, private travel. And so, really, the Ministry of Health are having to weigh up some quite complex situations and making sure they also weigh up keeping other New Zealanders safe as well. Media: But are you happy with the criteria that have been applied? Obviously, criticism of the judgment—and maybe Dr Bloomfield can comment on this—about the way these applications have been handled? And, obviously, this is not a clock you can turn back. PM: Yeah, look, obviously, the judgment, as I read it, was more about the process rather than the fact that the Ministry of Health wanted to be able to assess and use criteria to deem if something could be safe. But, ultimately, it is the right decision to go back and look at each of them again, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Health are doing that at the request of the Minister of Health. That is the right thing to do. You’re right, though, these are incredibly difficult circumstances, and I can’t imagine being in that situation. In fact, one of the things I have found the hardest about the lockdown we have been in is the loss of people’s friends and their family at that time. Media: But when you said yesterday that there were 18 exemptions, you said that does suggest there’s been due consideration. So the fact that there haven’t actually been 18 exemptions, and you were given dud advice and I recognise that—but the fact that there haven’t been, does that suggest there wasn’t due consideration? PM: That upholds the decision that has been made to go back and look at each of those cases. Decisions shouldn’t be made in an automated way; they should be given due consideration. Every individual case should be considered, because these are people’s lives. Media: But how can you reconcile that when in the time that you need to do this review, and perhaps you can comment on that as well, Dr Bloomfield, in the time that you do this review and the time that those applications were made and declined, family members are dying? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So a couple of comments there. First of all, as I said, I’ve asked the team to do this as rapidly as possible, and I had a briefing from them this morning about the process, first of all to ensure it’s done independently and, secondly, to make sure it is done expeditiously, and I recognise the time imperative here. So they are on to that immediately. The second thing is, and this goes to the earlier question about the criteria and the process—and I had, in fact, already asked the team over a week ago, before this case came through, to re-look at the process and the criteria as we move down alert levels and as we were able to better manage the risk of people coming into the country, and they had that process under way. They are now also looking at the judgment from last Friday to ensure that the findings of the judge are actually informing the review of the process and criteria too. Media: Would that review include the ability, if it’s still relevant for people, for them to be able to then go and see a relative that they have previously had declined, even under appeal? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, definitely, and that’s one of the key purposes of that review of every case, and they are prioritising the ones that are the most pressing in terms of the time frames. Media: In terms of the time frame, are you aware of how many of those cases it’s now too late—that person has now passed away? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t have any information about that at the moment. PM: One thing, I think, just for context: these are devastating cases. The incredibly difficult judgment the Ministry of Health are making is that, from memory, we’ve had over 20 cases of people who have been in isolation, having come in from overseas, who have subsequently tested positive for COVID. So that is the really difficult position that those making those judgments are in, but it’s absolutely right that we go back and check again that the right judgment has been applied. Media: Related to this, so not from people who are in quarantine but just in general, compassionate grounds for being able to be with somebody who’s in a hospital or the like—we’ve spoken to a woman who’s had to go through a miscarriage in hospital alone during level 3. Is that fair? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I can’t comment on that particular case, but once again, there is a process for exemptions for travel, inter-regional travel, that is dealt with by the National Crisis Management Centre, and they’ve had many hundreds of applications and they have approved quite a number of those—I don’t have the exact numbers. PM: Are you just implying someone in a hospital was unable to have someone accompany them? Media: A support person. And we’re also hearing that DHBs have different policies, allowing different support people in with different patients for appointments. Why those discrepancies across the DHBs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can just comment on the latter. We certainly have an updated visitor policy that applies to level 3, and that has been revised for level 2 as well. But a key part of that is an assessment by the person who is in charge of the ward or the environment where a patient is to make sure that they are able to balance up the potential benefits, of course, to the individual with any risk and how that risk can be managed, and it’s very important that we enable whoever it is who’s in charge of the care of the person to be able to apply that judgment within a framework that we’ve agreed nationally. Media: Do you recognise how terrifying that is, though, to have to go through something like that anyway, but to have to go through it alone? PM: Yes, and, obviously, that’s something that we had an expectation, of course, that through the different levels, different judgments would be applied. It’s a bit hard for us to comment on that without knowing the DHB, the facility, and the circumstances, but you will have heard Dr Bloomfield speak many times about trying to create a protocol that really does give that flexibility on the ground to those who know their wards and know their spaces well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I just clarify about the—sorry, just coming back to an earlier question—threshold for moving around the country because of the risk that isn’t there because of people arriving from overseas. Is it exactly the same criteria, or are they being allowed a bit more leniency if it’s within New Zealand, given that that international risk isn’t there? Prime Minister and Director-General of Health press conference page 7 of 11 PM: So you’re saying someone who comes in from overseas— Media: No, someone who’s already in New Zealand— PM: Ah, forgive me—and is moving around regionally. Media: —and is just moving around regionally. Are they being applied in a different way because that overseas risk isn’t present? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know the detail of that, but I can absolutely get that information. What I can say is that process is run not by the Ministry of Health team, which oversees the process for people who have come in and are in quarantine or manage self-isolation; it is run by a team in the National Crisis Management Centre. PM: From what I’ve seen, yes, because there we’ve had reunification of parents and children in a number of other circumstances, so very, very different circumstances. They have to be dealt with through regional transfers. Media: And only through the application that people can apply, basically, for travel exemptions—that would be the process that applied to that one? PM: Yes, that’s my recollection. Media: On the COVIDSafe app, did you discuss that at all with Australia today, and how likely is it that we’ll be adopting the same app? PM: Again, you’ll forgive me for not getting into a huge amount of specificity, but actually, when it comes to that, most of my conversations have tended to be directly with PM Morrison because, of course, most of the design development is being dealt with at that level. So that’s something that we’ve tended to discuss when we’ve had the opportunity one on one. Media: Australian media reported yesterday that New Zealand would be adopting that app. Was that erroneous? PM: Well, look, I guess you could—if I’m being generous—of course, I’ve always said we’re looking at the Singapore app, which is what the Australia app is based on. So perhaps, if they’re taking an assumption there, that therefore it makes it a direct link, but I’m probably being generous. Media: I just have a question about Cabinet’s decision to give Government departments a bit of a break from providing regulatory impact assessments until the end of August. Have any departments come forward and said, “Actually, we have the capability and we can do these statements and maybe we should do them anyway just for a matter of public record.” Have they offered that? PM: No one has put a ban on regulatory impact statements by any stretch. Of course, you will see—and it’s not uncommon from time to time when the House is dealing with matters of urgency for regulatory impact statements to not be part of a bill when it’s immediately tabled and debated. So, when you have shortened time frames, that’s not unusual, but it is also not ideal. I would have to go and check whether or not any agency had expressed a view, but, as I say, we’ve certainly not said we don’t want regulatory impact statements. We’ve simply acknowledged how difficult it is with the time frames we’ve been working to. Media: Have any of those departments with the policies already announced—have any of them done, like Treasury for example, done statements and just said, “Here’s the statement, anyway.”—just kind of FYI? PM: Look, I couldn’t answer a question like that with confidence. Of course, a number of policy decisions have been made, but they’re equally all part of proactive release as well. So all of that, in time, will be made available. Media: Prime Minister? PM: Oh, sorry, I thought you’d had a question. Go ahead. I’m just offering them willy-nilly now! Go ahead. Media: The tourism industry, obviously, has been hit a lot harder than most when it comes to COVID-19. I was speaking to some Māori tourism businesses this morning. They said extending the wage subsidy deep into the winter months would help them ward off making more redundancies. Is that something that the Government will consider—extending that exclusively for industries like tourism, where the effects will be far, far longer? PM: Yeah, as we’ve said, we’re moving into a phase of really looking at what sector-by-sector support may need to look like, depending on the ongoing level of impact. There are certain industries that will be affected for some time, even when we get to some level of normality, just because, for instance, our borders are closed or there are restrictions still on mass gatherings. So we are looking at being more specific and more targeted in our support. At the same time, we also need to encourage innovation. COVID will be with us for some time as a globe, and so we do need adaptation amongst some of those different industries to cope with that new environment. Media: What will the Government be doing, then, to help [Inaudible] speaking with the mayor this morning. Pre-COVID, 32 percent of the people in Rotorua were a part of the tourism workforce. That’s a third of the workforce. What will you do to stop these cities becoming ghost towns? PM: Two things, of course, is that domestic tourism is part our tourism infrastructure—for some more than others. So getting the virus under control puts us in a position down the track to be able to open that back up, and that’s a win for that sector. But, secondly, we are thinking again around the longer-term role that we need to play to support some of those hardest-hit sectors. Media: When will that decision come? Because a lot of businesses in those industries are saying that, with the wage subsidy ending in approximately four weeks, they’re looking at pulling the trigger on redundancies now. PM: Yeah, and, look, obviously, we are thinking about the time frames around when the wage subsidy phases out and what we look to do next for those hardest-hit sectors. At the same time, I do encourage those who are working in tourism to start making those assessments of how dependent their business is on overseas travel, because we will not have open borders for the rest of the world for a long time to come. Media: But, even in retail and hospitality, those businesses—they’re still going to be impacted. When can they get a sense of surety about what sort of support they might receive? PM: Of course, at the moment, we’ve focused very, very much on getting to a position where they can start trading again, which is our immediate focus this week on providing some framework for them to be able to prepare and get ready for our timetable going forward—if we manage to keep our results looking as they are. Media: Dr Bloomfield, do you have an update on the situation at the Waitakere Hospital and how many staff have been tested and whether there’s any more clarity about where those cases originated? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So what I do know is that there were the three nurses who had all nursed the six COVID-positive patients who had come from St Margaret’s. There has been wide testing of their close contacts, both family and work, and no further positives there—sorry, except for one of the nurses, a family probable case. But I don’t have any other further information. They’re all still in isolation and there is, obviously, an audit under way to try to find out what the source of the infection was for those three nurses. Media: And is it right that all staff have been offered testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. All of the staff who would be close contacts and who have been stood down would be offered testing. Media: Is it fair to say that this is a wake-up call for that practice, allowing staff to move between COVID and non-COVID wards? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what it is—and this is what we’ve done right through over the last few weeks—is a learning experience. So there is a review under way. It’s going to be reporting by Friday this week. It includes senior people from within the district health board as well as an independent person from—the Director of Nursing from Waikato DHB, and we’re as interested in this and I think all DHBs are interested, what can we learn, how do we strengthen our protocols and make sure that we are reducing the risk to our front-line health workers, and this will provide us with information for that. PM: It’s still important, just to reiterate, they weren’t working between wards on a single shift. Media: Prime Minister, you previously said that if someone has symptoms, even if they’re not too severe, they should be able to go get a test. Should someone who’s in managed self-isolation after having entered the country and has mild symptoms like a sore throat or nausea—should they have been tested? PM: I’m expecting that’s for the doctor. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, certainly everybody in managed isolation is checked at least daily, of course, and if appropriate and there are clinical staff on site—if appropriate there would be a low threshold for testing. That doesn’t mean everybody would necessarily be tested, but I know there would be a low threshold. Media: [Inaudible] repatriation flights practise social distancing? We’re hearing that people on, for example, one of the flights from India in the economy class seats were sat next to each other with no space between them. Is that something that concerns you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I know there will have been careful thought put into how to reduce the risk of anyone on a flight being infected, and that will include pre-screening before people even get on the flight as well as measures during a flight and afterwards. And then, of course, all of those people are going into the mandatory 14 days’ managed isolation when they get back. Media: Prime Minister, just on trans-Tasman travel, one of the possible issues is whether insurers will actually cover people for travel insurance if they get sick in the other country, given a declared pandemic is still in place. Has any consideration been given to this? PM: I see that as a hypothetical quite far down the track. I think the first step would actually be working on the future prospects of the travel plan rather than all of the things that act as a by-product from that. Media: Do you support Taiwan re-joining the WHO? PM: As you can imagine, the WHO membership is not something I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about at present. Media: Why doesn’t New Zealand have a position on this? PM: Again, because it’s not my decision around WHO membership. As with collective institutions, there’s a much wider body that makes these decisions. But, again, it’s not something I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about. Media: Are you weighing up the risk to mental health with the risk of catching COVID when it comes to people having to go through tragic experiences alone, and, if I could also just compound on that, a lot of the DHBs are referencing allowing people in on compassionate grounds. What do you consider compassionate grounds? PM: Again, look, there are a range of considerations that the Ministry of Health are using, and there’s good reason why these aren’t decisions that have been made by us, but by people who are weighing up health and mental health wellbeing. And those will be things that those who work in health will be thinking about. We have been thinking about the mental health of all New Zealanders; New Zealanders who lose individuals, who lose family members, who lose friends, but also who are just finding isolation a real struggle. And one of the things that has probably surprised me the most, I’ve received multiple letters from people who have lost family members in the most devastating circumstances, who’ve written just to say it was hard, but they still thought it was the right thing to do, to act the way we have been. That, to me, demonstrates a huge amount of selflessness of those people on behalf of all of New Zealand. Media: Have you received the Crown Law advice on the Ruby Princess yet, and will you be taking that— PM: No. Let me follow it up. The last time I checked it was something that they were working alongside those agencies who had direct responsibility for the legislation; primarily, and obviously, Customs playing a big role there. So it’s a reminder for me to check back in on that. Thank you. Media: In terms of the bubble, has any work been done on when we open up to travel across the whole of New Zealand—so New Zealand’s bubble—how long we would have to wait to percolate, if you like, before we could go into a trans-Tasman bubble? PM: Actually, for me, this is a chance to make sure that we get things at our domestic airports right. We do have an aviation advisory group that are meeting together this week and have been working on all of the issues you would expect us to have thought through for the more fulsome resumption of domestic travel. We do want to make sure that when people are travelling domestically, particularly on planes and through airports, that they are doing it safely. That’ll give us a bit of a start on what it might look like if, in the future, we’re opening up more broadly with other borders. Media: A time frame on that—I mean, have you done any work on whether that would say be a month or two months, or— PM: For a trans-Tasman? Media: So for how long we would have to stay in just a New Zealand bubble before we opened it up. PM: Well, actually what’s interesting—New Zealand is, of course, one border, so really what we are doing now is testing whether or not we have issue with community transmission. That then is being replicated at state level; that’s why, obviously, decisions need to be made in Australia between how they’re going to resume their domestic movements, but that’s obviously a matter for them. Media: Prime Minister, the National Party today put up a proposal for $8 billion of spending to help business. They say this is both more targeted and more generous than what your Government has done so far. It’s a mixture of GST refunds and tax breaks, and it would only go to businesses who can show two months of continuous 50 percent loss of revenue, so much more targeted than the wage subsidy. What do you make of a plan like that? Does that make some sense? PM: Look, to be honest, I haven’t had a huge amount of time to look into the detail of what they propose. It’s not clear to me—I’m assuming that this is instead of what we have proposed—and, in part, I would be surprised by that, because the wage subsidy has made a huge difference to a number of businesses with varying different circumstances but all who have had need and it has kept employees directly connected to their workplace. And it did it quickly; within days of application we were managing to get money out the door. I know it’s made a difference and I will be surprised if the National Party didn’t support that. Media: Will you be spending up to $8 billion next week, or is that a bit more than you really have on hand? PM: I obviously won’t be giving away any of our future spending decisions from the Budget, but if you look back on the wage subsidy, that’s been over $10 billion directly into the pockets of people who may have found themselves otherwise unemployed, and an extra $3 billion directly into our tax system to help with small businesses who are experiencing tough times right now. Media: Very quickly on the zero cases—how did you react when you learnt we had consecutive zeros? PM: Again, you know, I’m pleased. Every time we have a good result, of course I’m pleased, but for us it’s about sustaining this and so never get ahead of ourselves is the message right now. Thanks everyone. --- Section Separator --- Kia ora koutou katoa. Before we begin, I’ll take the usual practice of handing over to Dr Bloomfield first, to give us all an update on today’s numbers. --- Section Separator --- Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we have no new cases of COVID-19 to report. In addition, one case that was previously categorised as a probable case has been changed, and is now defined as not a case. So our overall total of confirmed and probable cases decreases by one to 1,486. Our total number of confirmed cases therefore remains at 1,137, and we will continue to report this number to the World Health Organisation, as we do update them each day. Yesterday, there were 3,232 tests processed at our laboratories around the country and the combined total to date is 155,928 tests. Of our cases, 1,302 are reported as recovered, which represents a total of 88 percent of our confirmed and probable cases. Today, there are four people in hospital and none of these is in ICU. There are no additional deaths to report. We still have the 16 significant clusters around New Zealand, with three now closed, as I’ve previously reported. One existing cluster—this is the St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home—has today had five new cases linked to it. It’s important to note these are not new cases; rather, what has happened is following further investigation, cases from what was previously considered a separate, smaller cluster have been linked to the St Margaret’s cluster, and those have been merged. These are existing cases, and none of them are patients at Waitakere Hospital. Obviously, having zero new cases of COVID-19 to report for a second day in a row is very encouraging, and all New Zealanders should feel pleased with their efforts—I certainly do—and of what we have achieved together over these last weeks. Of course, we must stick to the plan. The worst thing we could do now is celebrate success early before the full-time whistle blows, and jeopardise the gains we have made. Stay the course, stay in your bubble, and don’t squander what we have achieved by giving the virus a chance that it will only too readily accept if we do that. I just want to talk a bit about exemptions. We require anyone entering the country, as you know, to go into a 14-day period of either quarantine or managed isolation—the former if they are symptomatic. To date, since 20 March, around 6,000 returned travellers to New Zealand have gone into managed isolation or quarantine, and there are currently 179 people in quarantine facilities and just under 2,800 people in managed isolation. These precautions are obviously to prevent the virus coming into our country and to ensure that all New Zealanders are protected. There is, of course, a process for requesting an exemption, including on compassionate grounds, and the ministry has to date received 24 such requests that relate to a dying relative. As you know, there has been a judicial review of one of those requests which last Friday resulted in the court intervening, and a personal visit was organised. As a result of that judicial review, I’ve asked our team to review previous similar requests to ensure that they followed the correct process and take into account the judge’s findings. I should also point out that it won’t be the same team doing that review of those cases, but they are being done by a separate team that is in the National Crisis Management Centre, which considers all those requests for exemption for domestic travel. So they are being done by an entirely separate group of people. The review started today. I have asked for it to be completed as soon as possible this week. Today is International Midwives’ Day, and I want to shout out to all the midwives who work in Aotearoa New Zealand as both lead maternity carers in the community and our core midwives in hospitals and our primary birthing units. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou. There are about 3,200 of these essential front-line workers and they undertake important work across our communities. And during the period of lockdown, around 6,000 babies were delivered; many, if not all, with the help of those midwives. So once again, I want to acknowledge the wonderful work they do, not just today but each day. Today is also World Hand Hygiene Day. Now, that’s very apposite at this time, but I also should point out that every day at the moment should be World Hand Hygiene Day, and it’s a very important reminder today of the importance of what is a very simple action that prevents passing on any infection but, in particular, at the moment, greatly reduces the risk of passing on the COVID-19 infection. And, fittingly this year, the campaign theme is “SAVE LIVES: Clean Your Hands”. Prime Minister, I’m happy to leave it there and hand back to you. --- Section Separator --- Thank you very much, Dr Bloomfield. Can I reiterate your thanks to those who are our midwives in our communities. And it is in times like this that we acknowledge the role that they play for many mums to be within their community and within their whānau, and they always go above and beyond. I just want to acknowledge that—and also, of course, world hand washing day as well. Achieving zero cases two days in a row is the result of New Zealanders demonstrating a level of commitment and discipline to our goal of winning the fight against COVID-19. That we can all be undeniably proud of. It points to our lockdown doing exactly what we’d planned it to do: break the chain of transmission. However, we know the virus can have a long tail, and that other cases can pop up; so, as we make our way through this week and head towards the level 3 review next week, my message remains: don’t do anything that snatches our potential victory at this point. One case at one gathering has led to multiple clusters, and the virus getting away on us can still happen. So my message remains the same for the remainder of the week: stay home, stay in your bubble, maintain physical distancing, and let’s double down this week to maintain this good run of numbers. I’m also mindful that I have seen positive numbers in other places before and it’s not always sustained; so we do need to still be cautious. Before I come to Australia, I want to give you a quick update on the progress of the support and assistance for businesses and their workers hit by COVID-19. This afternoon, the COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Bill will have its first reading in Parliament. It gives effect to a range of measures the Government has put in place to support businesses through the pandemic, including helping businesses facing insolvency to remain viable by hibernating existing debt until they can trade normally again; changes to the parental leave scheme to allow essential workers to return to work without being disadvantaged by losing entitlements to certain leave and payments; and changes that will allow the likes of the Heart Foundation and Coastguard and particularly the Countdown Kids Charitable Trust to process their fund-raising lotteries through email, phone, and electronic payments. These are just some of the inadvertent consequences of this extraordinary time we’re in and the resolution that we’re finding for those problems. The first reading of the bill will take place this afternoon. It will be referred to the Epidemic Response Committee for consideration and reported back to the House on Tuesday, 12 May. It will then move through the remaining legislative stages as quickly as possible. I’ve just come from a meeting of the Australian National Cabinet, a gathering of Australia’s state and federal leaders, to discuss our experience with COVID-19 on both sides of the Ditch, what we can learn from one another, and how we might be able to work together as we recover from this pandemic. The National Cabinet tends to meet in times of national crisis but, obviously, is infrequent—the last New Zealand Prime Minister to participate in such a meeting was Peter Fraser, who attended various meetings of Australia’s War Cabinet. Australians and New Zealanders travel across the Ditch more than they do anywhere else. New Zealand is Australia’s second-largest source of tourists after China, with 1.2 million visitors last year, and 1.6 million Aussies visited us. So we both stand to benefit from getting travel up and running again. Part of the reason for so much travel is that families and friendships, of course, span the Tasman. There are around 75,000 Australians in New Zealand, and more than half a million Kiwis in Australia. We’re also Australia’s largest export market by number of exporting firms—18,500 Aussie businesses trade with New Zealand, meaning we’re especially critical for Australian SMEs. So the case for increasing economic relations when safe is clear. I joined the meeting at the very, very beginning and, I should note, it is still under way, and so you’ll forgive me for not saying too much here at this point. But it is our intention to issue a statement at the conclusion of the National Cabinet in order to provide you all with an update of some of the issues discussed, and some of the potential outcomes of that meeting. But again, I would note such a discussion has only been possible as a result of the world-leading resolve from both sides of the Tasman to get the virus under control, and I do think that we should both be proud of the efforts that have been made and also, again, the demonstration of the important Anzac bond between us. On to a bit of Kiwi ingenuity, I’ve outlined a few innovations today that are helping to get our economy moving. I want to reflect on one of those in particular, and that is our vital supply chain—our transport sector. New ways of working have ensured our food and goods have been unpacked from ships and aircraft, loaded into trucks, and delivered to retailers, as well as kept our exports flowing. At Wellington CentrePort, the teams eliminated face-to-face contact and physical paperwork and they’ve adopted digital kiosks, radio comms, automated weigh-bridges, and virtual planning meetings. We’ve seen that same kind of adaptability in businesses up and down the country. Just one example is how two particular drivers, Greg and Sam, have willingly changed their hours of work and routines to match the different Interislander ferry timetables so they can continue to get frozen vegetables and chips from Ashburton to the ferries in Picton. I want to say thanks to Greg and Sam. Necessity breeds innovation and with social distancing and good hygiene likely of course to be with us for a long time to come, I wouldn’t be surprised if we keep seeing innovation throughout our alert levels and across the country. Happy to take your questions. --- Section Separator --- Media: How would you characterise the enthusiasm for the trans-Tasman bubble from the Australian side and learning of course that New Zealand’s had two days of zero cases in a row, Australia’s had a couple of cases, largely built around one factory in Victoria, so it [Inaudible] how safe it might be. PM: Well, look, I think the important message there is that it doesn’t much, and that, I think, reinforces why we continue to share that message of “stay the course”. We have seen across the Ditch very low numbers, and then it can only take one outbreak in one workplace or one environment for you then suddenly to have an uptick, and that is why it is so important we stick with our restrictions. Look, the other takeaway for me—and I say this just generally, regardless—is actually there are a lot of similarities in the way that we have each tried to manage COVID and get on top of it and get back in control, and therefore there’s the same goals for both of us. Neither of us want cases of COVID coming between our countries. Neither of us would want the burden of that. So I think regardless of our future path we’ll be looking for ways to do it safely. That would be top of mind. Media: Prime Minister, was there any pushback from any of the state leaders? Did any of them feel that this push for a trans-Tasman travel bubble is too ambitious? Because many Australian states still have their state borders closed. PM: Yeah, and so, again, I do want to respect the fact that the National Cabinet is still meeting, and I do also want to respect the fact that we were meeting within in a Cabinet environment so that means, of course, you’ll know that when I’m talking about Cabinet often speak in very general terms. But again, this is not to get ahead of a decision. There are, obviously, within Australia, still restrictions around domestic travel and those are, ultimately, issues for Australia. I think, simply, the position that I would take on behalf of New Zealand is that when we feel comfortable and confident that we both won’t receive cases from Australia, but equally that we won’t export them, then that will be the time to move. Media: And can you just be clear on whether or not there would be a quarantine at either border? PM: Oh, the whole purpose of us discussing the possibility of having a bubble of sorts between us—a safe zone of travel—would be so that you wouldn’t have to have a quarantine attached. I think everyone would acknowledge that it would be prohibitive. People just wouldn’t travel if they had to stay on either side in quarantine for a two-week period and have to do the same again when you return. But there is still a lot of work to be done before we can progress an idea like that, but it’s obviously been floated because of the benefits that it would bring. Media: Taking into account all of those things—that we’d need to ensure that we weren’t further transmitting the virus—what kind of certainty or clarity can you give to New Zealanders in Australia who want to come home and see their families? When will they be able to do that? PM: Of course, I’d say to New Zealanders in Australia you can come home but, of course, at the moment we are still requiring that quarantine to keep you safe and to keep your family safe. But we are also actively considering what the future looks like for us. I’m very keen, of course, as I’ve always said, that the advantage we have—getting back in control of the virus—has been to try and get back to some form of normality. International travel won’t feel like that for some time, but if we can find a way to make it work with Australia, then that would give that sense of normality, if we can make it work. Media: [Inaudible] under level 2? PM: Oh, again, for really the alert level framework within New Zealand. Of course, for us it’s actually more the criteria of what we’re seeing on both sides of the Ditch with our cases, with our controls, and with our border management. Media: Can you see a situation where we would have a trans-Tasman bubble but exclude one of the Australian states, for example? PM: For me, it actually really comes down to a determination at a state and federal level by Australia. So that’s less of—other than, of course, we would have some expectations of when travel resumes, or if we’re able to establish this kind of bubble, making sure we were doing it safely for us. And so that would mean, if we were seeing a cluster of cases or growth in cases or outbreaks, that we would have to look at changing what we were doing and what we were receiving on our side. But, ultimately, I still see that as part of the arrangements that need to be made between the states and at a federal level. Media: Are you able to give us any more clarity on time frame? PM: No. No, I do want to let that meeting conclude, and, of course, at the moment what we’re discussing here is a concept that’s been floated for some time, but I do want to allow the meeting to at least draw to a conclusion before we go any further. Media: Prime Minister, what is your view on how the applications for compassionate exemptions have been handled, given every single one has been declined for that particular circumstance? PM: Yeah, look, I would anticipate that Dr Bloomfield probably has a similar view to me on this matter. The whole point of having the ability to apply for a compassionate exemption was so that we could assess the circumstances. There should be nothing automated about that. We should give genuine consideration for each of those applications, because they would only have been made because of dire circumstances. Now, I absolutely appreciate the reason we put that in place was we didn’t want double grief. We didn’t want a situation where people entered into a risky situation for them and their families, but, equally, we wanted to give them a chance to ask, to see if there was a way it could be managed. Media: Can you clarify the situation for people wanting to travel within New Zealand, rather than coming from overseas, and being in quarantine, and is that a lower threshold? PM: Sorry, what was that? Media: If people have a dying relative in another part of the country— PM: Yes. Media: —would there be a lower threshold for allowance to go— PM: And that’s some of the kinds of scenarios that, of course, then you would want considered when looking at some applications, as to the degree to which it can be conducted safely. You see the conditions for the person who made a case to the court were very, very specific about private residence, private travel. And so, really, the Ministry of Health are having to weigh up some quite complex situations and making sure they also weigh up keeping other New Zealanders safe as well. Media: But are you happy with the criteria that have been applied? Obviously, criticism of the judgment—and maybe Dr Bloomfield can comment on this—about the way these applications have been handled? And, obviously, this is not a clock you can turn back. PM: Yeah, look, obviously, the judgment, as I read it, was more about the process rather than the fact that the Ministry of Health wanted to be able to assess and use criteria to deem if something could be safe. But, ultimately, it is the right decision to go back and look at each of them again, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Health are doing that at the request of the Minister of Health. That is the right thing to do. You’re right, though, these are incredibly difficult circumstances, and I can’t imagine being in that situation. In fact, one of the things I have found the hardest about the lockdown we have been in is the loss of people’s friends and their family at that time. Media: But when you said yesterday that there were 18 exemptions, you said that does suggest there’s been due consideration. So the fact that there haven’t actually been 18 exemptions, and you were given dud advice and I recognise that—but the fact that there haven’t been, does that suggest there wasn’t due consideration? PM: That upholds the decision that has been made to go back and look at each of those cases. Decisions shouldn’t be made in an automated way; they should be given due consideration. Every individual case should be considered, because these are people’s lives. Media: But how can you reconcile that when in the time that you need to do this review, and perhaps you can comment on that as well, Dr Bloomfield, in the time that you do this review and the time that those applications were made and declined, family members are dying? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So a couple of comments there. First of all, as I said, I’ve asked the team to do this as rapidly as possible, and I had a briefing from them this morning about the process, first of all to ensure it’s done independently and, secondly, to make sure it is done expeditiously, and I recognise the time imperative here. So they are on to that immediately. The second thing is, and this goes to the earlier question about the criteria and the process—and I had, in fact, already asked the team over a week ago, before this case came through, to re-look at the process and the criteria as we move down alert levels and as we were able to better manage the risk of people coming into the country, and they had that process under way. They are now also looking at the judgment from last Friday to ensure that the findings of the judge are actually informing the review of the process and criteria too. Media: Would that review include the ability, if it’s still relevant for people, for them to be able to then go and see a relative that they have previously had declined, even under appeal? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, definitely, and that’s one of the key purposes of that review of every case, and they are prioritising the ones that are the most pressing in terms of the time frames. Media: In terms of the time frame, are you aware of how many of those cases it’s now too late—that person has now passed away? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t have any information about that at the moment. PM: One thing, I think, just for context: these are devastating cases. The incredibly difficult judgment the Ministry of Health are making is that, from memory, we’ve had over 20 cases of people who have been in isolation, having come in from overseas, who have subsequently tested positive for COVID. So that is the really difficult position that those making those judgments are in, but it’s absolutely right that we go back and check again that the right judgment has been applied. Media: Related to this, so not from people who are in quarantine but just in general, compassionate grounds for being able to be with somebody who’s in a hospital or the like—we’ve spoken to a woman who’s had to go through a miscarriage in hospital alone during level 3. Is that fair? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I can’t comment on that particular case, but once again, there is a process for exemptions for travel, inter-regional travel, that is dealt with by the National Crisis Management Centre, and they’ve had many hundreds of applications and they have approved quite a number of those—I don’t have the exact numbers. PM: Are you just implying someone in a hospital was unable to have someone accompany them? Media: A support person. And we’re also hearing that DHBs have different policies, allowing different support people in with different patients for appointments. Why those discrepancies across the DHBs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can just comment on the latter. We certainly have an updated visitor policy that applies to level 3, and that has been revised for level 2 as well. But a key part of that is an assessment by the person who is in charge of the ward or the environment where a patient is to make sure that they are able to balance up the potential benefits, of course, to the individual with any risk and how that risk can be managed, and it’s very important that we enable whoever it is who’s in charge of the care of the person to be able to apply that judgment within a framework that we’ve agreed nationally. Media: Do you recognise how terrifying that is, though, to have to go through something like that anyway, but to have to go through it alone? PM: Yes, and, obviously, that’s something that we had an expectation, of course, that through the different levels, different judgments would be applied. It’s a bit hard for us to comment on that without knowing the DHB, the facility, and the circumstances, but you will have heard Dr Bloomfield speak many times about trying to create a protocol that really does give that flexibility on the ground to those who know their wards and know their spaces well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I just clarify about the—sorry, just coming back to an earlier question—threshold for moving around the country because of the risk that isn’t there because of people arriving from overseas. Is it exactly the same criteria, or are they being allowed a bit more leniency if it’s within New Zealand, given that that international risk isn’t there? Prime Minister and Director-General of Health press conference page 7 of 11 PM: So you’re saying someone who comes in from overseas— Media: No, someone who’s already in New Zealand— PM: Ah, forgive me—and is moving around regionally. Media: —and is just moving around regionally. Are they being applied in a different way because that overseas risk isn’t present? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know the detail of that, but I can absolutely get that information. What I can say is that process is run not by the Ministry of Health team, which oversees the process for people who have come in and are in quarantine or manage self-isolation; it is run by a team in the National Crisis Management Centre. PM: From what I’ve seen, yes, because there we’ve had reunification of parents and children in a number of other circumstances, so very, very different circumstances. They have to be dealt with through regional transfers. Media: And only through the application that people can apply, basically, for travel exemptions—that would be the process that applied to that one? PM: Yes, that’s my recollection. Media: On the COVIDSafe app, did you discuss that at all with Australia today, and how likely is it that we’ll be adopting the same app? PM: Again, you’ll forgive me for not getting into a huge amount of specificity, but actually, when it comes to that, most of my conversations have tended to be directly with PM Morrison because, of course, most of the design development is being dealt with at that level. So that’s something that we’ve tended to discuss when we’ve had the opportunity one on one. Media: Australian media reported yesterday that New Zealand would be adopting that app. Was that erroneous? PM: Well, look, I guess you could—if I’m being generous—of course, I’ve always said we’re looking at the Singapore app, which is what the Australia app is based on. So perhaps, if they’re taking an assumption there, that therefore it makes it a direct link, but I’m probably being generous. Media: I just have a question about Cabinet’s decision to give Government departments a bit of a break from providing regulatory impact assessments until the end of August. Have any departments come forward and said, “Actually, we have the capability and we can do these statements and maybe we should do them anyway just for a matter of public record.” Have they offered that? PM: No one has put a ban on regulatory impact statements by any stretch. Of course, you will see—and it’s not uncommon from time to time when the House is dealing with matters of urgency for regulatory impact statements to not be part of a bill when it’s immediately tabled and debated. So, when you have shortened time frames, that’s not unusual, but it is also not ideal. I would have to go and check whether or not any agency had expressed a view, but, as I say, we’ve certainly not said we don’t want regulatory impact statements. We’ve simply acknowledged how difficult it is with the time frames we’ve been working to. Media: Have any of those departments with the policies already announced—have any of them done, like Treasury for example, done statements and just said, “Here’s the statement, anyway.”—just kind of FYI? PM: Look, I couldn’t answer a question like that with confidence. Of course, a number of policy decisions have been made, but they’re equally all part of proactive release as well. So all of that, in time, will be made available. Media: Prime Minister? PM: Oh, sorry, I thought you’d had a question. Go ahead. I’m just offering them willy-nilly now! Go ahead. Media: The tourism industry, obviously, has been hit a lot harder than most when it comes to COVID-19. I was speaking to some Māori tourism businesses this morning. They said extending the wage subsidy deep into the winter months would help them ward off making more redundancies. Is that something that the Government will consider—extending that exclusively for industries like tourism, where the effects will be far, far longer? PM: Yeah, as we’ve said, we’re moving into a phase of really looking at what sector-by-sector support may need to look like, depending on the ongoing level of impact. There are certain industries that will be affected for some time, even when we get to some level of normality, just because, for instance, our borders are closed or there are restrictions still on mass gatherings. So we are looking at being more specific and more targeted in our support. At the same time, we also need to encourage innovation. COVID will be with us for some time as a globe, and so we do need adaptation amongst some of those different industries to cope with that new environment. Media: What will the Government be doing, then, to help [Inaudible] speaking with the mayor this morning. Pre-COVID, 32 percent of the people in Rotorua were a part of the tourism workforce. That’s a third of the workforce. What will you do to stop these cities becoming ghost towns? PM: Two things, of course, is that domestic tourism is part our tourism infrastructure—for some more than others. So getting the virus under control puts us in a position down the track to be able to open that back up, and that’s a win for that sector. But, secondly, we are thinking again around the longer-term role that we need to play to support some of those hardest-hit sectors. Media: When will that decision come? Because a lot of businesses in those industries are saying that, with the wage subsidy ending in approximately four weeks, they’re looking at pulling the trigger on redundancies now. PM: Yeah, and, look, obviously, we are thinking about the time frames around when the wage subsidy phases out and what we look to do next for those hardest-hit sectors. At the same time, I do encourage those who are working in tourism to start making those assessments of how dependent their business is on overseas travel, because we will not have open borders for the rest of the world for a long time to come. Media: But, even in retail and hospitality, those businesses—they’re still going to be impacted. When can they get a sense of surety about what sort of support they might receive? PM: Of course, at the moment, we’ve focused very, very much on getting to a position where they can start trading again, which is our immediate focus this week on providing some framework for them to be able to prepare and get ready for our timetable going forward—if we manage to keep our results looking as they are. Media: Dr Bloomfield, do you have an update on the situation at the Waitakere Hospital and how many staff have been tested and whether there’s any more clarity about where those cases originated? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So what I do know is that there were the three nurses who had all nursed the six COVID-positive patients who had come from St Margaret’s. There has been wide testing of their close contacts, both family and work, and no further positives there—sorry, except for one of the nurses, a family probable case. But I don’t have any other further information. They’re all still in isolation and there is, obviously, an audit under way to try to find out what the source of the infection was for those three nurses. Media: And is it right that all staff have been offered testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. All of the staff who would be close contacts and who have been stood down would be offered testing. Media: Is it fair to say that this is a wake-up call for that practice, allowing staff to move between COVID and non-COVID wards? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what it is—and this is what we’ve done right through over the last few weeks—is a learning experience. So there is a review under way. It’s going to be reporting by Friday this week. It includes senior people from within the district health board as well as an independent person from—the Director of Nursing from Waikato DHB, and we’re as interested in this and I think all DHBs are interested, what can we learn, how do we strengthen our protocols and make sure that we are reducing the risk to our front-line health workers, and this will provide us with information for that. PM: It’s still important, just to reiterate, they weren’t working between wards on a single shift. Media: Prime Minister, you previously said that if someone has symptoms, even if they’re not too severe, they should be able to go get a test. Should someone who’s in managed self-isolation after having entered the country and has mild symptoms like a sore throat or nausea—should they have been tested? PM: I’m expecting that’s for the doctor. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, certainly everybody in managed isolation is checked at least daily, of course, and if appropriate and there are clinical staff on site—if appropriate there would be a low threshold for testing. That doesn’t mean everybody would necessarily be tested, but I know there would be a low threshold. Media: [Inaudible] repatriation flights practise social distancing? We’re hearing that people on, for example, one of the flights from India in the economy class seats were sat next to each other with no space between them. Is that something that concerns you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I know there will have been careful thought put into how to reduce the risk of anyone on a flight being infected, and that will include pre-screening before people even get on the flight as well as measures during a flight and afterwards. And then, of course, all of those people are going into the mandatory 14 days’ managed isolation when they get back. Media: Prime Minister, just on trans-Tasman travel, one of the possible issues is whether insurers will actually cover people for travel insurance if they get sick in the other country, given a declared pandemic is still in place. Has any consideration been given to this? PM: I see that as a hypothetical quite far down the track. I think the first step would actually be working on the future prospects of the travel plan rather than all of the things that act as a by-product from that. Media: Do you support Taiwan re-joining the WHO? PM: As you can imagine, the WHO membership is not something I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about at present. Media: Why doesn’t New Zealand have a position on this? PM: Again, because it’s not my decision around WHO membership. As with collective institutions, there’s a much wider body that makes these decisions. But, again, it’s not something I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about. Media: Are you weighing up the risk to mental health with the risk of catching COVID when it comes to people having to go through tragic experiences alone, and, if I could also just compound on that, a lot of the DHBs are referencing allowing people in on compassionate grounds. What do you consider compassionate grounds? PM: Again, look, there are a range of considerations that the Ministry of Health are using, and there’s good reason why these aren’t decisions that have been made by us, but by people who are weighing up health and mental health wellbeing. And those will be things that those who work in health will be thinking about. We have been thinking about the mental health of all New Zealanders; New Zealanders who lose individuals, who lose family members, who lose friends, but also who are just finding isolation a real struggle. And one of the things that has probably surprised me the most, I’ve received multiple letters from people who have lost family members in the most devastating circumstances, who’ve written just to say it was hard, but they still thought it was the right thing to do, to act the way we have been. That, to me, demonstrates a huge amount of selflessness of those people on behalf of all of New Zealand. Media: Have you received the Crown Law advice on the Ruby Princess yet, and will you be taking that— PM: No. Let me follow it up. The last time I checked it was something that they were working alongside those agencies who had direct responsibility for the legislation; primarily, and obviously, Customs playing a big role there. So it’s a reminder for me to check back in on that. Thank you. Media: In terms of the bubble, has any work been done on when we open up to travel across the whole of New Zealand—so New Zealand’s bubble—how long we would have to wait to percolate, if you like, before we could go into a trans-Tasman bubble? PM: Actually, for me, this is a chance to make sure that we get things at our domestic airports right. We do have an aviation advisory group that are meeting together this week and have been working on all of the issues you would expect us to have thought through for the more fulsome resumption of domestic travel. We do want to make sure that when people are travelling domestically, particularly on planes and through airports, that they are doing it safely. That’ll give us a bit of a start on what it might look like if, in the future, we’re opening up more broadly with other borders. Media: A time frame on that—I mean, have you done any work on whether that would say be a month or two months, or— PM: For a trans-Tasman? Media: So for how long we would have to stay in just a New Zealand bubble before we opened it up. PM: Well, actually what’s interesting—New Zealand is, of course, one border, so really what we are doing now is testing whether or not we have issue with community transmission. That then is being replicated at state level; that’s why, obviously, decisions need to be made in Australia between how they’re going to resume their domestic movements, but that’s obviously a matter for them. Media: Prime Minister, the National Party today put up a proposal for $8 billion of spending to help business. They say this is both more targeted and more generous than what your Government has done so far. It’s a mixture of GST refunds and tax breaks, and it would only go to businesses who can show two months of continuous 50 percent loss of revenue, so much more targeted than the wage subsidy. What do you make of a plan like that? Does that make some sense? PM: Look, to be honest, I haven’t had a huge amount of time to look into the detail of what they propose. It’s not clear to me—I’m assuming that this is instead of what we have proposed—and, in part, I would be surprised by that, because the wage subsidy has made a huge difference to a number of businesses with varying different circumstances but all who have had need and it has kept employees directly connected to their workplace. And it did it quickly; within days of application we were managing to get money out the door. I know it’s made a difference and I will be surprised if the National Party didn’t support that. Media: Will you be spending up to $8 billion next week, or is that a bit more than you really have on hand? PM: I obviously won’t be giving away any of our future spending decisions from the Budget, but if you look back on the wage subsidy, that’s been over $10 billion directly into the pockets of people who may have found themselves otherwise unemployed, and an extra $3 billion directly into our tax system to help with small businesses who are experiencing tough times right now. Media: Very quickly on the zero cases—how did you react when you learnt we had consecutive zeros? PM: Again, you know, I’m pleased. Every time we have a good result, of course I’m pleased, but for us it’s about sustaining this and so never get ahead of ourselves is the message right now. Thanks everyone. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of the daily media conference 5 May
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers : Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
Home Updates Transcript of the daily media conference 6 May --- Section Separator --- Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern: Tēnā koutou katoa. Good afternoon. I wanted to talk today about some of the work taking place in New Zealand’s economy to get us working again and how we can leverage our strong health response to COVID to create some economic advantage for New Zealand going forward. But, first, I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield for his health update. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today we have two new cases of COVID-19 to report. This comprises one confirmed and one probable case. The confirmed case is linked to the Marist College cluster. The person who has tested positive for COVID-19 is a student who has been, like the rest of New Zealand, in lockdown under alert level 3, and then under the alert level 3 restrictions—sorry, lockdown under alert level 4, and then under level 3, since March 20th. They had been contacted by Healthline in the first week of April as part of the contact tracing and were not unwell at that time, so did not progress to testing at this stage. So it was part of the broader testing of Marist students and staff as they head back to school. Around 250 people have been tested so far. This is the only positive result from that group. The student has what we would call a weak positive test, and is almost certainly late in the course of an infection. The significance of the weak positive result so late in the course of the illness when the symptoms that the student reported were actually some weeks ago—it’s not fully understood, and it’s likely the person is not infectious at this stage, and this is a pattern we have seen in some of our recent cases and it also has been observed internationally. And the South Koreans have done a study on a group like this and subsequently followed that up with a study that suggested that this was the result of some viral fragments still being detected by the testing but not that the people were infective. In so saying, we are taking a precautionary approach—as we should—and the student will remain in isolation and be retested in a week’s time. I think this case that’s been discovered through this testing across the Marist community shows the importance of that sort of testing, and I’d encourage others from the Marist College community to go and be tested if they haven’t as yet. The other case we’re reporting—the probable case—is linked to the St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home cluster, and this is a household contact of a known case. It’s a probable case because the person has symptoms, but it has been tested as negative but still considered to have COVID-19. It will be important to understand the transmission path of any cases we do find in coming days, as we’ve said before, and our teams are working very closely with public health units to ensure that we get that information as quickly as possible. So the total number of New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases is 1,488, and 1,138 of those are confirmed and we will be reporting that number through to the WHO. There are—88 percent of all probable and confirmed cases are now considered recovered. We have two people in hospital today. One is in Auckland City and one in Middlemore Hospital, and neither are in ICU. Sadly, today, I have another COVID-19 - related death to report. This is associated with the cluster at the Rosewood Rest Home and Hospital. The person who has passed away is a woman in her 60s. She had underlying health conditions and was considered a probable case of COVID-19 due to her clinical presentation and past exposure history, despite testing negative. This woman has been at Rosewood since 2011 and was a much loved member of the Rosewood family, and I’m pleased to say—and you will, I’m sure, join me in understanding that a staff member was comforting her when she passed away. She was not one of the residents who had been transferred to Burwood Hospital, but was still at Rosewood, and our thoughts of course go out to her family and her friends today in the days and weeks and months ahead. Regarding our testing, there were 4,772 tests processed yesterday, bringing our total to 160,700 tests. There are no new clusters and, as I’ve reported previously, three clusters are now closed. So, finally, our low number of COVID-19 cases continues to be encouraging, but we are by no means out of the woods. We need everyone to stick to the plan and continue to follow the rules around alert level 3, and not doing so does risk undoing all the good work we have achieved so far. We have seen how quickly this virus can spread, both here and in other countries, so do not give it an inch. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Director-General. Some of you will be aware of the news announced by Microsoft this morning that it is set to make a significant investment to establish a data centre region in New Zealand for its cloud services. I do note that this is subject to normal regulatory approvals. However, this is a hugely welcome development, not least for job opportunities in the near term for our construction industry, and in the longer term for our ICT industry and local innovators, but because it serves as a signal to the world that New Zealand is open for business and quality investment. Our decision to go hard and go early on the health front for COVID-19 has been our best economic response. Now, it’s about positioning New Zealand to recover, and building on investment opportunities such as this one. More broadly, it is my view that by tackling the virus, we have positioned our economy to be able to rebuild ahead of many others globally. That is our safe haven, strategic advantage. International companies like Microsoft wouldn’t be investing here or looking to invest here if they didn’t have full confidence in the New Zealand economy that we are ready to welcome quality investment and to offer a safe place for operation in both a health and business sense. Today’s announcement also represents a vote of confidence in New Zealand’s digital future. It means the Government and New Zealand businesses and New Zealanders will be able to access the scale and security of cloud services offered by a major global provider in a way that hasn’t been done before here in New Zealand. I have two other pieces of economic news that I would just like to note, as well. Trade Minister, David Parker, has announced that the 21 APEC economies have committed to working together to ensure trade and investment continues to flow to help counter the economic impact of COVID-19. This will promote a more stable trading environment for our food exporters and it will also help provide reliable access to medical supplies. To quote the Minister: “In these troubled times, our region has recognised how important it is to act in concert to keep supply chains open and trade flowing, especially in essential goods and services.” And employment figures released this morning by Statistics New Zealand, while covering the period before the worst of the COVID-19 impact, show the economy’s underlying strength heading into this global pandemic. In the three months to the end of March, the number of employed people rose by 19,000, while the number of unemployed was up by 5,000. The employment rate rose to 67.5 percent, while the unemployment rate also rose slightly from 4 to 4.2 percent—remaining near its lowest levels in a decade. Obviously, a huge amount has changed in the last six weeks in New Zealand, and this global, one-in-100-year health and economic crisis will contribute to unemployment rising— of that there is no doubt. But we will continue to support people, to help protect jobs, to help grow jobs, and help support people’s incomes. Fittingly, our Kiwi ingenuity story for today is a business story from the West Coast of the South Island, where people are working together to make sure that they are supporting one another. I recently had a letter from Development West Coast to let me know that a coordinated effort has brought together an online directory of 180 local businesses that are back operating under level 3. There’s also help for small and medium businesses in the form of a rebate of $5 per delivery, up to a maximum of $250 per establishment, to help offset some of the costs associated with running a delivery service or using a courier service: www.nowopen.co.nz is a great initiative and a platform built in collaboration with EPIC Westport, a PGF-funded digital hub. And I say well done to them. Ready for questions. Media: Prime Minister, did you have a chance to hear the submissions at committee today? PM: No, on account of, often, the overlap between Cabinet committees and the epidemic committee. But I do make a habit of getting a read out and feedback from those who are appearing and sharing testimony at the committee. Media: If I could just run you through a few of the things that we heard—if you’ll bear with me. There was a woman with breast cancer who was left financially vulnerable because she had to pay for her own mastectomy. There was a woman who learnt of a miscarriage on her own in hospital while her husband was in the hospital carpark. There was a mother who learnt she had terminal cancer. We heard of a mother who learnt she had terminal cancer over the phone. We heard the story of another mother whose enduring image of her son will be when he was taken away by paramedics after taking his own life, and he wasn’t able to have a funeral. Do you recognise that there is a real urgency to address the hurt and harm that’s being caused? PM: Yes. Media: What are you going to do about it? PM: Well, you will have seen all the way through this, every time there’s been a death, every time there’s been a traumatic experience that someone has had—because, ultimately, we’ve had to make decisions to try and protect people’s health—we have never discounted the impact that’s having on people’s lives. Some of the stories I’ve heard today, though, don’t fit with our expectations that we have. No one—no one—should birth alone. Everyone should have been able to have a support person with them through that experience. So there are some stories and testimonies that I’m sure the Director-General will want to be looking at, because there are some expectations that I don’t think have been met, from what we’ve heard today. Media: Are you calling into question those stories from those people— PM: No, no—not at all. Media: —or the actions of the— PM: Just the implementation, because I don’t think anyone would think, even in these extraordinary times, that that would be reasonable. Yes—of course—in the period thereafter, there has been the ongoing risk of having visitors coming and going and what that presented for patients. But when it comes to, for instance, someone having a baby, no one should go through that experience alone. Media: That woman and all those others, though—it feels totally out of control. Where is the compassion? PM: Oh, what I’ve just expressed is the expectation that we have. Some of those experiences shouldn’t be had alone, and it was our expectation that they shouldn’t be happening alone. Media: So will the Government take—just on a case by case basis, actually—take a bit more care and consideration in considering those exemptions and considering whether or not people can have— PM: Again—as I’ve already said—for instance, there already is an expectation that no one should birth alone. What we’re hearing is someone sometimes—the experience of what’s happened in individual DHBs, and at that level, decisions are being made, often, by clinicians. So it’s probably best for me to hand over to Dr Bloomfield on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Yes, so I got to hear most of one testimony and all of the last testimony before I answered questions to the committee, and the point I made is that it’s very important to hear these stories and understand the impact on individuals and their whanau. These are things that we will use to inform, not just our approach as we move through and down the alert levels, but also updating our policies in case we have to move up through alert levels, and I guess the point I did want to make is, you know, what we always aspire to—whether it’s a pandemic situation or not—is it should be consistent, as appropriate, and different, as appropriate. And, ultimately, that comes down to clinical decisions and discussions between individuals and their whānau and clinicians. But we will be looking to make sure that where there is every reasonable expectation of consistency, that will be the case. Media: Did you fail those people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I didn’t personally fail them, and what I— Media: But did the Government fail these people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t think the Government did, and what’s important, though, is that we have heard those testimonies and that we work with the district health boards to get a good understanding of just what happened in those situations, and use them as a learning experience. And I know that they will be paying careful attention, because they will have been listening as well. PM: One of the other things to keep in mind, of course, is these are, in and of themselves, potentially very traumatic events that are even made more traumatic by the fact that they have happened during a global pandemic when the country has been in lockdown. What our duty of care is is to try and reduce that burden as much as we can, and, as the Director-General has said, there are cases where it doesn’t sound like we’ve done that to the best of our ability. We have to be willing to go back and learn from that. Media: That same select committee heard from the Cancer Society about screening. Screening was off the table during the lockdown. They’re concerned that hundreds could die in the coming months or coming years due to cancer because it wasn’t caught during the lockdown. What’s being done to mitigate that risk? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, first of all, in terms of screening—yes, no cancer screening was done during the lockdown. But that is now up and going again, and so I’d like to encourage anyone who does get an invitation for screening to take that up, and it’s important that we do deliver screening services as part of our cancer prevention and early detection. The second thing I think Dr Jackson was talking about was the need to catch up rapidly on undertaking assessments and diagnostics on people who may have symptoms and maybe need to be investigated. And that’s one of the things the district health boards are looking at very promptly, working both with us and with the new Cancer Control Agency with Professor Sarfati, who’s the interim CE there. So there’s a very big focus on getting those people in to be assessed and to get any tests and investigations they need as quickly as possible. Media: Can you guarantee, though, that there won’t be loss of life because of this lockdown and the lack of cancer screening? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: What I can say is I have no doubt that those who deliver cancer services are more committed than anyone to making sure that people timely assessment and investigation to ensure that any possible harm that might have accrued because of the lockdown is averted. So I think that—well, the other thing I can say is—and I know—that 80 percent of the cancer surgery that we would have expected to have happened during that lockdown has happened, and that clinicians are working very carefully with the Cancer Control Agency to ensure that people are prioritised to avoid any harm arising. PM: That’s my understanding—that the vast majority of cancer surgery continued, and I believe bowel screening—well, at least bowel screening is by post. So there’s a different set of circumstances for bowel screening. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s right. The actual faecal occult blood test is done through the mail. [Interruption] PM: OK, just coming through—yes. Media: Dr Bloomfield, does it concern you that there’s a shortage of propofol—I hope I’ve pronounced that property. PHARMAC has just come out and said there’s a shortage, and that’s used in all surgeries and it’s the only one that we use in New Zealand. Is that of a concern, given that elective surgeries are going to be up and running again soon? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, yes, I do know that there’s a challenge with the supply of propofol—it’s a global issue. But I do have a lot a confidence in PHARMAC that they will be using every possible route to ensure that we can maintain supply here, because it’s important for both surgery and for use in ICUs when people are being ventilated. So I know they will be working very closely with the professions to make sure we can avoid any problem with a shortage. Media: Do you have any special powers under the emergency Act to maybe get PHARMAC to bring in a different brand if they need to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, they’ve got all the expertise and they’ll get the clinical advice they need, and if they need to, I have no doubt they will do that, and, in fact, we’ve been working closely with them as part of ensuring our supply chains through alert level 4 and into 3. And, where necessary, we are only too happy to actually organise a flight to go and get pharmaceutical supplies, and that has already happened over the last few weeks. PM: Heta—here in the front. Media: Prime Minister, the Kōhanga Reo National Trust were disappointed that they weren’t asked to present in front of the Epidemic Response Committee. Given that the people that presented, there was a raft mainstream education providers, ECE, principals, universities—should Kohanga Reo National Trust be approached to present? PM: Well, whilst I wasn’t privy to some of the urgings that were made by other members of the committee, I am told by at least the Government members on the committee that there was a general message sent that they would’ve liked greater diversity amongst the representation, be it Māori health professionals—and also representation across the board generally. But, ultimately, we do not hold a majority on that committee, and it is chaired by the Leader of the Opposition. Media: There was zero Māori representation in the education-themed committee yesterday—no kōhanga reo, and no kura kaupapa Māori, either. Should there have been? PM: Oh, I think there needs to be diversity of voice, and that includes, you know, within health, within education. As I have said, though, unfortunately, we didn’t hold a majority on that committee. We did give the opportunity for the Opposition to lead it and they are, and so, ultimately, it is determined by the chair and the Opposition who appears before that committee. Media: The Māori Party said Simon Bridges is willing to let racist politics take precedence over public health. Do you agree? PM: Oh look, you know, I haven’t been intimately involved in the way that the committee has run, but I do know from our members that we have sought that kind of representation. [Interruption] In the front. Media: Prime Minister, are you concerned that the Solicitor-General being issued a summons sets a bad precedent? PM: Well, obviously, I’m more focused on the substance, really, of the issue at hand, and so when it comes to the substance, I just want to note a couple of things, and that is, ultimately, that the legal underpinnings for our lockdown and for the enforcement are all in the public domain because, of course, they include the epidemic notice, the section 70 notice under the Public Health Act, the national state of emergency, and, of course, the Cabinet papers that underpin each. They are all in the public domain. What the Leader of the Opposition is seeking is legal advice, which, of course, he himself strongly defended in the past—the practice of not releasing advice that is provided to the Crown. So I think that’s an important distinction to make. Media: Just on police and their powers, will they need new legislation to clarify their powers under alert level 2? PM: Yes. What we have said is that, actually, greater clarity is required as you move down from what are more generic provisions, as you move down into lower levels—that we believe it would be right and proper for us to create more specificity around those enforcement powers. And so that is something we’ve been working on with Crown Law. Media: So are you confident that you won’t need any retrospective legislation to validate those sort of early days of the lockdown? PM: I’ve been consistently advised that there were no gaps in our enforcement powers throughout our response. What we have acknowledged is that, actually, some of the legislation that we have had to utilise—which include, for instance, the epidemic notices and so on—actually probably could be more fit for purpose going forward, because they tend to be designed for individuals rather than when you’re dealing with the likes of a global pandemic such as this. So we’ve acknowledged that there’s a time and a place, going forward, where we may wish to look at the legal framework and ensure it’s fit for purpose in the future. Media: But no retrospective validation? PM: No. No, our view—the advice that we have been provided is that there’s been no gap in our enforcement powers. Media: Prime Minister, the 24 cases that are being looked at who had exemptions declined to visit dying loved ones—could you give us an update on that? Has anyone been granted one? PM: It’s being dealt by the Ministry of Health, so I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. So, by the end of yesterday, over half of those had been reviewed. I don’t have the results of what those reviews are yet, but I’m pleased to say that it is continuing apace. I expect them all to be done by today and have the results and the outcome of that—again, affirming that it is being done independently by another group; not the group that originally did the assessments. Media: Were any exemptions made? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know as yet. Media: Now that the National Cabinet has wrapped up—because you, obviously, weren’t able to talk about it yesterday. We’ve seen the communiqué on Trans-Tasman bubbles, so you can leave that. What else did you learn or what else did you share, or what else can you tell us about what was discussed at the National Cabinet? PM: Again, I’ll apply the same rules that I apply domestically for discussions in Cabinet, so— Media: It’s not a real Cabinet. It’s just a forum for— PM: Yeah, I won’t— Media: So there’s no Cabinet story? PM: Well, I’m not sure it’s for me to determine that on behalf of the Prime Minister and the Premiers. But just to give a general sense, what stands out for me is that we are all grappling with the general issue of getting control of the virus, and then, as you do that, safely resuming economic activity. Everyone, globally, is dealing with that issue, and so, obviously, in New Zealand, we’re charting our own path in such a way that we do not run the risk of yo-yoing back into greater restrictions—because nobody wants that—but, equally, we’re trying to move as quickly as we can safely. So I felt a real sense of solidarity because we’re all in that same boat together. Media: Is there a case to invite Scott Morrison to a New Zealand Cabinet for any particular reason—to do the opposite, to learn anything? PM: I wouldn’t rule that out—I mean, because, ultimately, these are all exercises in sharing information, particularly given we are such closely linked economies and because we have shared aspiration that when it is safe to do so, we would like to continue the exchange of people and, therefore, trade and business as well. So to have that commitment from both sides is helpful, but it also gives a sense of our direction to our business community and to New Zealanders and Australians. The one thing I’m mindful, though— today, I see Australia is grappling with little cases springing up, as we continue to as well. So we are having similar experiences; what neither of us want is to go backwards. Media: Prime Minister, you’ve previously talked about, I guess, your scepticism about the efficacy of a contact-tracing app—issues around uptake and around the accuracy of the tracking. Could we theoretically go it without a contact-tracing app? PM: Yes, but there are different—yes, you could, because it is always an enhancement on top of what the World Health Organization, from memory, characterises as public health boots on the ground—it’s always in addition to—but there are also other things that we can explore. One of the things that we of course already said to the hospitality industry prior to lockdown was “You must ensure that you have ways of contact tracing everyone who comes into your premise.”, and so whether or not you’re engaging technological tools to do that or doing it in a more traditional way, we do have an expectation that that will be occurring. There are also other ways of gathering information that aren’t necessarily apps that you’d want to do with people’s permission, but we need to explore all of those tools to help us with contact tracing. [Interruption] Yeah, I’ll let you come in with a follow-up. Media: Is the Government still planning to release an officially sanctioned Bluetooth app? PM: Yeah, so we’ve always kept our options open around the range of different tools, and we are still working in earnest on each of them. Media: Prime Minister, do you believe you and Scott Morrison are on the same page when it comes to the trans-Tasman travel bubble, or are you keener than he is to have flights resume, or the resumption of travel between the two countries? Because in his opening spiel yesterday, it was a lengthy opening spiel—a length of 20-plus minutes—he didn’t even mention trans-Tasman travel. PM: Oh look, I think we are in exactly the same place, as you would expect when you release a joint press statement. By default, obviously, you’re in the same place on it. Media: But he neglected to mention it in his media conference post - National Cabinet until he was asked about it. PM: That does not in any way undermine the position that we both hold on this issue, which is that neither of us wishes to be responsible for cases popping up on either Prime Minister’s country. No one wants that responsibility on our shoulders, so I think what we’re both driven by is a desire to get our countries in relative positions to be able to do this safely. We are on the same page. We see the economic benefit, but we also see the risk. We’re determined to try and find a resolution. Jenna, yeah. Media: Sorry, just back on the contact-tracing app—does that have to be made available before we go into level 2? Is that on track to happen— PM: No, we’re not making it contingent, but of course we will have obligations that we expect of certain industries. So that will be—that, for instance, is part of our expectations for moving levels. Media: So could those hospitality guidelines be broadened to include retail, for example—would you look at that as a framework for other sectors? PM: Yeah, and, look, I’ve been really impressed by the work that retailers and the hospitality association are doing, because they can see already what needs to happen for people to be able to resume safely, and so they themselves have been doing some of the work in this space. But I’ll be commenting a bit more on that tomorrow. Media: We’ve heard of payday lenders setting debt collectors on people during lockdown. What’s your response to that? PM: You will have seen that we have expedited some of the work that we have been doing to put a bit more rigour around the way that some who operate as payday lenders and as loan sharks have operated. I think it’s probably in keeping with the kind of behaviour we’ve seen from these people in the past, and it shouldn’t be tolerated. Media: Do you think that they should show some form of compassion? PM: Basic humanity is what I think they should show, but we don’t always see that from that sector. Media: Just back on contact-tracing apps, is there any real point in pursuing them when you need quite a high download rate and 20 percent of people don’t have smart phones, and even in Singapore, where people are very cooperative with their Government— PM: Fourteen percent. Media: —they only got 20 percent penetration? PM: Yeah. One of the issues in Singapore that they freely identified was compatibility with iPhones. I note that they do have high Android use, but that still would be a significant issue for the likes of New Zealand and Australia. My understanding is Australia overcame that. They also—it was a significant drain on battery life and it interfered with people’s Bluetooth headphones. Anything that, I think, acts as a barrier to making it as simple as possible to engage in a tool like that is a problem. So I think that’s why you’ve heard me be sceptical, because I don’t wish for us to rely on that being the answer, because it never will be. It will be a helpful supplementary tool. Dr Bloomfield, though, you’d have views on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah, look, I think the more we learn—and I’m looking at European countries as well, and I think the UK made an announcement yesterday and they’re trialling something. Any of these apps has drawbacks—none of them are perfect. The important point for us is we’ve got our core contact-tracing system solid and achieving the sorts of time frames that we were aiming to achieve. I think one of the other things we’re thoughtful about too is we would like to think about—what we have seen through the COVID-19 response from the health system is some quite significant changes in the way that care is delivered to people through virtual means. And what we’re really interested in is thinking, if there is a role for an app, that it’s not just around contact tracing but it may have some potential longer-term benefits for people in terms of access to information—their information—about their health and enabling them to take better care of themselves and their whānau. Media: Are you still looking at the CovidCard—the Bluetooth-only card? PM: Yeah, so you will have seen that there’s been a number of options to get around the fact that people may not have the devices required for apps. So those were all things that we have given quite broad consideration to and haven’t yet settled on. One thing you also don’t hear people talking about too much—but I think is quite a useful device—is QR codes, because, of course, that potentially removes the requirement to have people physically registering at the door when they’re coming into hospitality—for instance, bars, cafes, restaurants. QR codes are a simple technological fix for that. So these are the range of options that we’d be willing to look at in our response into COVID. Media: In a level 2— PM: I’ll just come in the front of you, if you don’t mind. Media: Thank you. So, further to that, Rob Fyfe said recently that a solution could be a device that people carry around— PM: Yep. Media: —and that New Zealand could be world first in our contact tracing capabilities. Is that the CovidCard, or is there another device— PM: I believe that he’s talking about the CovidCard—a card—which has the same kind of functionality as a Bluetooth app. I believe that’s what he’ll be referring to. Media: So how far away would that be—do we have any time frames on it? PM: Again, as I’ve said, you know, we’ve been considering a range of different supplementary options, and there are a number of issues that you have to work through. Of course, it all comes down to human behaviour. The thing that stops a person downloading an app might well be the same things that stop a person from carrying something with them. That’s not to say that we’re not giving really thorough consideration to all of the options. Final decisions on something like that, though, you’d imagine you’d have to take a lot into account. Yeah, Jenna. Media: Looking at the current level 2 guidelines, the one that kind of sticks out like a sore thumb is the gatherings of up to 100 people indoors and 500 people outdoors. That’s a mass change from what we’re seeing at the moment. Will that remain tomorrow? PM: So I’ll be giving more detail tomorrow on the alert level framework, and what you will have seen us do as we’ve gone through the different stages, we do take a fresh look at the system that was created at the beginning of the pandemic, and what we apply is the latest knowledge, information, and evidence to that framework. We as a world, as a global community, have learnt a lot about COVID-19 in a short space of time, and that includes in the last four weeks. So you’ll see when we talk about the framework tomorrow that we will be using the most up-to-date information we can. Media: So should people be expecting to be able to have, say, a wedding of 100 people under level 2? PM: Again, you’ll see the advice that we provide tomorrow, and you’ll see that, as always, we do give guidance in advance to prepare people and then lots of advance notice before we move into the different levels as well. Media: On the Microsoft announcement, are there any large global companies which you know are looking to do similar investment in New Zealand, and also are you looking to invite other companies to set up headquarters or temporary offices here to sort of weather out the COVID crisis? PM: This actually is an issue that I’ve raised with the Minister for Economic Development but also Minister Woods. Within MBIE we do have a team who proactively go out and connect with often high-tech, high-wage emerging businesses to help facilitate entry into the New Zealand market and also help them navigate our regulatory environment. They do that in a really proactive way—in the same way that NZTE supports our exporters—in order to encourage high-quality investment in New Zealand. My view is that now is the time to continue with real extra effort and enthusiasm that work. New Zealand’s brand has always been that we are a sound, high-quality, reliable place to invest. I’d like to think that our response to this health crisis only further underpins or emphasises that approach. Now is the time for us to sell that message internationally. In terms of specific pitches, though, you know, some of that I leave to our Ministers, but I have certainly shared my view that now is the time to tell that story. Media: Prime Minister, you mentioned that we’ve learnt a lot about COVID-19 in a short space of time. Does that mean that we could see some considerable changes to some of the level 2 restrictions tomorrow? PM: No, I think you’ll see that we’re willing to use evidence in our decision making, and that’s important. There are things, of course, that we know about—lag times. Now, we see that you can still get a positive result for COVID many weeks after you’ve had it, and you may not be infectious but you can still test positive. We know the lag time of the virus and the vulnerability that presents, but we also have some of that core guidance—that if you’re with someone indoors for longer than two hours, that’s risky; if you’re in close contact with people, that’s risky. So it’s all about using that evidence to build a framework that gets people back to normal, but a safer normal. Media: Sorry, I know you’ve already made some points about the regional alert levels, but if we remain at level 3 beyond next week—if it is extended—would that be the point that you’d then look at changing alert levels on a region by region basis? PM: Again, some of this I wouldn’t mind just picking up tomorrow, because then I’d be able to talk with you with a little more specificity around the different arrangements at alert level 2. I’ll take the last few questions. Bernard, yeah. Media: On the Microsoft issue, there was your suggestion about trying to get more big companies to come here. Are you confident— PM: Trying to get quality investment to come here. Media: Yeah. Are you confident that Microsoft or Google or Facebook or some of— Amazon—would be proper taxpayers if they came here, and would you get assurances from them that they would pay their taxes properly here? PM: Look, everyone who comes into New Zealand knows the expectations that we have for how people will operate here, but one thing I want to point out is actually the relationship between New Zealand—and, again, I say this, all under the umbrella of certain regulatory processes needing to be complete for this particular investment. But what I want to say broadly is that actually Microsoft is a good example of a relationship that has strengthened in recent times. We’ve worked closely with Microsoft on initiatives like the Christchurch Call. We’ve got good personal relationships with the senior executives, and I think what you’ve seen as a reflection of their investment is that they see not only a strong regulatory framework here in New Zealand but also a strong digital future here in New Zealand as well. Media: But isn’t it also crowding out local firms who are more open-source— PM: No. Media: —and locking the Government into a single software provider? PM: No. What I’ve seen, actually, as a reflection of this kind of investment is the number of potentially smaller ICT companies who could benefit from it. It also adds a bit more comfort when it comes to data sovereignty through onshore storage, which has been an issue that’s being raised in many quarters. Yep, I’ll take the last few questions, and I’ll finish with Tova. Media: Just a couple of quick ones. COVID: the potential for an alert level 2 law—how far away is that, and could it hold up the move to level 2, figuring there’s only a small handful of days— PM: Yeah, obviously, we know this is work that needs to be completed with urgency. But for further questions on that, I’ll have the Attorney-General provide a little more context around the work that’s being done. Media: In all contact tracing, are you looking at any way—like South Korea has done—at a combination of like cellphone-tracking data and retail-spending data in order to sort of aggregate people’s movements and who they may have come into contact with? PM: You can imagine that, of course, all of the expectation we have as a society around people’s privacy means that whatever we do, we’re looking for people having an acceptance of the role that technological solution and handing over their information can play in this response. So we’re working with the Privacy Commissioner on the kinds of initiatives that can actually balance people’s privacy with also the need to respond to this pandemic. Media: So it’s off the cards, such a— PM: Not in—we wouldn’t do it in an automated way, but that’s not to say we aren’t thinking about all the different tools we could use that would satisfy privacy issues and people’s permission being given for being involved in anything that really reaches into their privacy. Media: Prime Minister, people who normally live in New Zealand and have permanent residency or work visas are struggling to get home from South Africa, despite the flights being available. Do officials need to do more to get everyone home who lives in New Zealand, and not just citizens? PM: They’ve been doing an extraordinary amount of work—tens of thousands of New Zealanders being supported in what is the biggest consular exercise that we can remember in MFAT’s history. It is a big exercise, though. I know that there is more work that MFAT’s doing within certain parts of the world, but that is an ongoing piece of work. Bringing New Zealanders home has been tough, but they have done an amazing job. Media: But are we doing that at the expense of perhaps some people who live here but aren’t citizens or residents? PM: We’ve of course been involving—it hasn’t just been citizens who have been coming home. But anything with more specific detail, I would need to ask MFAT to help provide that advice. All right, thank you everyone. Media: On Mother’s Day, can you quickly please— PM: I’m back tomorrow. --- Section Separator --- Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern: Tēnā koutou katoa. Good afternoon. I wanted to talk today about some of the work taking place in New Zealand’s economy to get us working again and how we can leverage our strong health response to COVID to create some economic advantage for New Zealand going forward. But, first, I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield for his health update. --- Section Separator --- Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today we have two new cases of COVID-19 to report. This comprises one confirmed and one probable case. The confirmed case is linked to the Marist College cluster. The person who has tested positive for COVID-19 is a student who has been, like the rest of New Zealand, in lockdown under alert level 3, and then under the alert level 3 restrictions—sorry, lockdown under alert level 4, and then under level 3, since March 20th. They had been contacted by Healthline in the first week of April as part of the contact tracing and were not unwell at that time, so did not progress to testing at this stage. So it was part of the broader testing of Marist students and staff as they head back to school. Around 250 people have been tested so far. This is the only positive result from that group. The student has what we would call a weak positive test, and is almost certainly late in the course of an infection. The significance of the weak positive result so late in the course of the illness when the symptoms that the student reported were actually some weeks ago—it’s not fully understood, and it’s likely the person is not infectious at this stage, and this is a pattern we have seen in some of our recent cases and it also has been observed internationally. And the South Koreans have done a study on a group like this and subsequently followed that up with a study that suggested that this was the result of some viral fragments still being detected by the testing but not that the people were infective. In so saying, we are taking a precautionary approach—as we should—and the student will remain in isolation and be retested in a week’s time. I think this case that’s been discovered through this testing across the Marist community shows the importance of that sort of testing, and I’d encourage others from the Marist College community to go and be tested if they haven’t as yet. The other case we’re reporting—the probable case—is linked to the St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home cluster, and this is a household contact of a known case. It’s a probable case because the person has symptoms, but it has been tested as negative but still considered to have COVID-19. It will be important to understand the transmission path of any cases we do find in coming days, as we’ve said before, and our teams are working very closely with public health units to ensure that we get that information as quickly as possible. So the total number of New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases is 1,488, and 1,138 of those are confirmed and we will be reporting that number through to the WHO. There are—88 percent of all probable and confirmed cases are now considered recovered. We have two people in hospital today. One is in Auckland City and one in Middlemore Hospital, and neither are in ICU. Sadly, today, I have another COVID-19 - related death to report. This is associated with the cluster at the Rosewood Rest Home and Hospital. The person who has passed away is a woman in her 60s. She had underlying health conditions and was considered a probable case of COVID-19 due to her clinical presentation and past exposure history, despite testing negative. This woman has been at Rosewood since 2011 and was a much loved member of the Rosewood family, and I’m pleased to say—and you will, I’m sure, join me in understanding that a staff member was comforting her when she passed away. She was not one of the residents who had been transferred to Burwood Hospital, but was still at Rosewood, and our thoughts of course go out to her family and her friends today in the days and weeks and months ahead. Regarding our testing, there were 4,772 tests processed yesterday, bringing our total to 160,700 tests. There are no new clusters and, as I’ve reported previously, three clusters are now closed. So, finally, our low number of COVID-19 cases continues to be encouraging, but we are by no means out of the woods. We need everyone to stick to the plan and continue to follow the rules around alert level 3, and not doing so does risk undoing all the good work we have achieved so far. We have seen how quickly this virus can spread, both here and in other countries, so do not give it an inch. Thank you, Prime Minister. --- Section Separator --- Thank you, Director-General. Some of you will be aware of the news announced by Microsoft this morning that it is set to make a significant investment to establish a data centre region in New Zealand for its cloud services. I do note that this is subject to normal regulatory approvals. However, this is a hugely welcome development, not least for job opportunities in the near term for our construction industry, and in the longer term for our ICT industry and local innovators, but because it serves as a signal to the world that New Zealand is open for business and quality investment. Our decision to go hard and go early on the health front for COVID-19 has been our best economic response. Now, it’s about positioning New Zealand to recover, and building on investment opportunities such as this one. More broadly, it is my view that by tackling the virus, we have positioned our economy to be able to rebuild ahead of many others globally. That is our safe haven, strategic advantage. International companies like Microsoft wouldn’t be investing here or looking to invest here if they didn’t have full confidence in the New Zealand economy that we are ready to welcome quality investment and to offer a safe place for operation in both a health and business sense. Today’s announcement also represents a vote of confidence in New Zealand’s digital future. It means the Government and New Zealand businesses and New Zealanders will be able to access the scale and security of cloud services offered by a major global provider in a way that hasn’t been done before here in New Zealand. I have two other pieces of economic news that I would just like to note, as well. Trade Minister, David Parker, has announced that the 21 APEC economies have committed to working together to ensure trade and investment continues to flow to help counter the economic impact of COVID-19. This will promote a more stable trading environment for our food exporters and it will also help provide reliable access to medical supplies. To quote the Minister: “In these troubled times, our region has recognised how important it is to act in concert to keep supply chains open and trade flowing, especially in essential goods and services.” And employment figures released this morning by Statistics New Zealand, while covering the period before the worst of the COVID-19 impact, show the economy’s underlying strength heading into this global pandemic. In the three months to the end of March, the number of employed people rose by 19,000, while the number of unemployed was up by 5,000. The employment rate rose to 67.5 percent, while the unemployment rate also rose slightly from 4 to 4.2 percent—remaining near its lowest levels in a decade. Obviously, a huge amount has changed in the last six weeks in New Zealand, and this global, one-in-100-year health and economic crisis will contribute to unemployment rising— of that there is no doubt. But we will continue to support people, to help protect jobs, to help grow jobs, and help support people’s incomes. Fittingly, our Kiwi ingenuity story for today is a business story from the West Coast of the South Island, where people are working together to make sure that they are supporting one another. I recently had a letter from Development West Coast to let me know that a coordinated effort has brought together an online directory of 180 local businesses that are back operating under level 3. There’s also help for small and medium businesses in the form of a rebate of $5 per delivery, up to a maximum of $250 per establishment, to help offset some of the costs associated with running a delivery service or using a courier service: www.nowopen.co.nz is a great initiative and a platform built in collaboration with EPIC Westport, a PGF-funded digital hub. And I say well done to them. Ready for questions. --- Section Separator --- Media: Prime Minister, did you have a chance to hear the submissions at committee today? PM: No, on account of, often, the overlap between Cabinet committees and the epidemic committee. But I do make a habit of getting a read out and feedback from those who are appearing and sharing testimony at the committee. Media: If I could just run you through a few of the things that we heard—if you’ll bear with me. There was a woman with breast cancer who was left financially vulnerable because she had to pay for her own mastectomy. There was a woman who learnt of a miscarriage on her own in hospital while her husband was in the hospital carpark. There was a mother who learnt she had terminal cancer. We heard of a mother who learnt she had terminal cancer over the phone. We heard the story of another mother whose enduring image of her son will be when he was taken away by paramedics after taking his own life, and he wasn’t able to have a funeral. Do you recognise that there is a real urgency to address the hurt and harm that’s being caused? PM: Yes. Media: What are you going to do about it? PM: Well, you will have seen all the way through this, every time there’s been a death, every time there’s been a traumatic experience that someone has had—because, ultimately, we’ve had to make decisions to try and protect people’s health—we have never discounted the impact that’s having on people’s lives. Some of the stories I’ve heard today, though, don’t fit with our expectations that we have. No one—no one—should birth alone. Everyone should have been able to have a support person with them through that experience. So there are some stories and testimonies that I’m sure the Director-General will want to be looking at, because there are some expectations that I don’t think have been met, from what we’ve heard today. Media: Are you calling into question those stories from those people— PM: No, no—not at all. Media: —or the actions of the— PM: Just the implementation, because I don’t think anyone would think, even in these extraordinary times, that that would be reasonable. Yes—of course—in the period thereafter, there has been the ongoing risk of having visitors coming and going and what that presented for patients. But when it comes to, for instance, someone having a baby, no one should go through that experience alone. Media: That woman and all those others, though—it feels totally out of control. Where is the compassion? PM: Oh, what I’ve just expressed is the expectation that we have. Some of those experiences shouldn’t be had alone, and it was our expectation that they shouldn’t be happening alone. Media: So will the Government take—just on a case by case basis, actually—take a bit more care and consideration in considering those exemptions and considering whether or not people can have— PM: Again—as I’ve already said—for instance, there already is an expectation that no one should birth alone. What we’re hearing is someone sometimes—the experience of what’s happened in individual DHBs, and at that level, decisions are being made, often, by clinicians. So it’s probably best for me to hand over to Dr Bloomfield on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Yes, so I got to hear most of one testimony and all of the last testimony before I answered questions to the committee, and the point I made is that it’s very important to hear these stories and understand the impact on individuals and their whanau. These are things that we will use to inform, not just our approach as we move through and down the alert levels, but also updating our policies in case we have to move up through alert levels, and I guess the point I did want to make is, you know, what we always aspire to—whether it’s a pandemic situation or not—is it should be consistent, as appropriate, and different, as appropriate. And, ultimately, that comes down to clinical decisions and discussions between individuals and their whānau and clinicians. But we will be looking to make sure that where there is every reasonable expectation of consistency, that will be the case. Media: Did you fail those people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I didn’t personally fail them, and what I— Media: But did the Government fail these people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t think the Government did, and what’s important, though, is that we have heard those testimonies and that we work with the district health boards to get a good understanding of just what happened in those situations, and use them as a learning experience. And I know that they will be paying careful attention, because they will have been listening as well. PM: One of the other things to keep in mind, of course, is these are, in and of themselves, potentially very traumatic events that are even made more traumatic by the fact that they have happened during a global pandemic when the country has been in lockdown. What our duty of care is is to try and reduce that burden as much as we can, and, as the Director-General has said, there are cases where it doesn’t sound like we’ve done that to the best of our ability. We have to be willing to go back and learn from that. Media: That same select committee heard from the Cancer Society about screening. Screening was off the table during the lockdown. They’re concerned that hundreds could die in the coming months or coming years due to cancer because it wasn’t caught during the lockdown. What’s being done to mitigate that risk? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, first of all, in terms of screening—yes, no cancer screening was done during the lockdown. But that is now up and going again, and so I’d like to encourage anyone who does get an invitation for screening to take that up, and it’s important that we do deliver screening services as part of our cancer prevention and early detection. The second thing I think Dr Jackson was talking about was the need to catch up rapidly on undertaking assessments and diagnostics on people who may have symptoms and maybe need to be investigated. And that’s one of the things the district health boards are looking at very promptly, working both with us and with the new Cancer Control Agency with Professor Sarfati, who’s the interim CE there. So there’s a very big focus on getting those people in to be assessed and to get any tests and investigations they need as quickly as possible. Media: Can you guarantee, though, that there won’t be loss of life because of this lockdown and the lack of cancer screening? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: What I can say is I have no doubt that those who deliver cancer services are more committed than anyone to making sure that people timely assessment and investigation to ensure that any possible harm that might have accrued because of the lockdown is averted. So I think that—well, the other thing I can say is—and I know—that 80 percent of the cancer surgery that we would have expected to have happened during that lockdown has happened, and that clinicians are working very carefully with the Cancer Control Agency to ensure that people are prioritised to avoid any harm arising. PM: That’s my understanding—that the vast majority of cancer surgery continued, and I believe bowel screening—well, at least bowel screening is by post. So there’s a different set of circumstances for bowel screening. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s right. The actual faecal occult blood test is done through the mail. [Interruption] PM: OK, just coming through—yes. Media: Dr Bloomfield, does it concern you that there’s a shortage of propofol—I hope I’ve pronounced that property. PHARMAC has just come out and said there’s a shortage, and that’s used in all surgeries and it’s the only one that we use in New Zealand. Is that of a concern, given that elective surgeries are going to be up and running again soon? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, yes, I do know that there’s a challenge with the supply of propofol—it’s a global issue. But I do have a lot a confidence in PHARMAC that they will be using every possible route to ensure that we can maintain supply here, because it’s important for both surgery and for use in ICUs when people are being ventilated. So I know they will be working very closely with the professions to make sure we can avoid any problem with a shortage. Media: Do you have any special powers under the emergency Act to maybe get PHARMAC to bring in a different brand if they need to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, they’ve got all the expertise and they’ll get the clinical advice they need, and if they need to, I have no doubt they will do that, and, in fact, we’ve been working closely with them as part of ensuring our supply chains through alert level 4 and into 3. And, where necessary, we are only too happy to actually organise a flight to go and get pharmaceutical supplies, and that has already happened over the last few weeks. PM: Heta—here in the front. Media: Prime Minister, the Kōhanga Reo National Trust were disappointed that they weren’t asked to present in front of the Epidemic Response Committee. Given that the people that presented, there was a raft mainstream education providers, ECE, principals, universities—should Kohanga Reo National Trust be approached to present? PM: Well, whilst I wasn’t privy to some of the urgings that were made by other members of the committee, I am told by at least the Government members on the committee that there was a general message sent that they would’ve liked greater diversity amongst the representation, be it Māori health professionals—and also representation across the board generally. But, ultimately, we do not hold a majority on that committee, and it is chaired by the Leader of the Opposition. Media: There was zero Māori representation in the education-themed committee yesterday—no kōhanga reo, and no kura kaupapa Māori, either. Should there have been? PM: Oh, I think there needs to be diversity of voice, and that includes, you know, within health, within education. As I have said, though, unfortunately, we didn’t hold a majority on that committee. We did give the opportunity for the Opposition to lead it and they are, and so, ultimately, it is determined by the chair and the Opposition who appears before that committee. Media: The Māori Party said Simon Bridges is willing to let racist politics take precedence over public health. Do you agree? PM: Oh look, you know, I haven’t been intimately involved in the way that the committee has run, but I do know from our members that we have sought that kind of representation. [Interruption] In the front. Media: Prime Minister, are you concerned that the Solicitor-General being issued a summons sets a bad precedent? PM: Well, obviously, I’m more focused on the substance, really, of the issue at hand, and so when it comes to the substance, I just want to note a couple of things, and that is, ultimately, that the legal underpinnings for our lockdown and for the enforcement are all in the public domain because, of course, they include the epidemic notice, the section 70 notice under the Public Health Act, the national state of emergency, and, of course, the Cabinet papers that underpin each. They are all in the public domain. What the Leader of the Opposition is seeking is legal advice, which, of course, he himself strongly defended in the past—the practice of not releasing advice that is provided to the Crown. So I think that’s an important distinction to make. Media: Just on police and their powers, will they need new legislation to clarify their powers under alert level 2? PM: Yes. What we have said is that, actually, greater clarity is required as you move down from what are more generic provisions, as you move down into lower levels—that we believe it would be right and proper for us to create more specificity around those enforcement powers. And so that is something we’ve been working on with Crown Law. Media: So are you confident that you won’t need any retrospective legislation to validate those sort of early days of the lockdown? PM: I’ve been consistently advised that there were no gaps in our enforcement powers throughout our response. What we have acknowledged is that, actually, some of the legislation that we have had to utilise—which include, for instance, the epidemic notices and so on—actually probably could be more fit for purpose going forward, because they tend to be designed for individuals rather than when you’re dealing with the likes of a global pandemic such as this. So we’ve acknowledged that there’s a time and a place, going forward, where we may wish to look at the legal framework and ensure it’s fit for purpose in the future. Media: But no retrospective validation? PM: No. No, our view—the advice that we have been provided is that there’s been no gap in our enforcement powers. Media: Prime Minister, the 24 cases that are being looked at who had exemptions declined to visit dying loved ones—could you give us an update on that? Has anyone been granted one? PM: It’s being dealt by the Ministry of Health, so I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. So, by the end of yesterday, over half of those had been reviewed. I don’t have the results of what those reviews are yet, but I’m pleased to say that it is continuing apace. I expect them all to be done by today and have the results and the outcome of that—again, affirming that it is being done independently by another group; not the group that originally did the assessments. Media: Were any exemptions made? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know as yet. Media: Now that the National Cabinet has wrapped up—because you, obviously, weren’t able to talk about it yesterday. We’ve seen the communiqué on Trans-Tasman bubbles, so you can leave that. What else did you learn or what else did you share, or what else can you tell us about what was discussed at the National Cabinet? PM: Again, I’ll apply the same rules that I apply domestically for discussions in Cabinet, so— Media: It’s not a real Cabinet. It’s just a forum for— PM: Yeah, I won’t— Media: So there’s no Cabinet story? PM: Well, I’m not sure it’s for me to determine that on behalf of the Prime Minister and the Premiers. But just to give a general sense, what stands out for me is that we are all grappling with the general issue of getting control of the virus, and then, as you do that, safely resuming economic activity. Everyone, globally, is dealing with that issue, and so, obviously, in New Zealand, we’re charting our own path in such a way that we do not run the risk of yo-yoing back into greater restrictions—because nobody wants that—but, equally, we’re trying to move as quickly as we can safely. So I felt a real sense of solidarity because we’re all in that same boat together. Media: Is there a case to invite Scott Morrison to a New Zealand Cabinet for any particular reason—to do the opposite, to learn anything? PM: I wouldn’t rule that out—I mean, because, ultimately, these are all exercises in sharing information, particularly given we are such closely linked economies and because we have shared aspiration that when it is safe to do so, we would like to continue the exchange of people and, therefore, trade and business as well. So to have that commitment from both sides is helpful, but it also gives a sense of our direction to our business community and to New Zealanders and Australians. The one thing I’m mindful, though— today, I see Australia is grappling with little cases springing up, as we continue to as well. So we are having similar experiences; what neither of us want is to go backwards. Media: Prime Minister, you’ve previously talked about, I guess, your scepticism about the efficacy of a contact-tracing app—issues around uptake and around the accuracy of the tracking. Could we theoretically go it without a contact-tracing app? PM: Yes, but there are different—yes, you could, because it is always an enhancement on top of what the World Health Organization, from memory, characterises as public health boots on the ground—it’s always in addition to—but there are also other things that we can explore. One of the things that we of course already said to the hospitality industry prior to lockdown was “You must ensure that you have ways of contact tracing everyone who comes into your premise.”, and so whether or not you’re engaging technological tools to do that or doing it in a more traditional way, we do have an expectation that that will be occurring. There are also other ways of gathering information that aren’t necessarily apps that you’d want to do with people’s permission, but we need to explore all of those tools to help us with contact tracing. [Interruption] Yeah, I’ll let you come in with a follow-up. Media: Is the Government still planning to release an officially sanctioned Bluetooth app? PM: Yeah, so we’ve always kept our options open around the range of different tools, and we are still working in earnest on each of them. Media: Prime Minister, do you believe you and Scott Morrison are on the same page when it comes to the trans-Tasman travel bubble, or are you keener than he is to have flights resume, or the resumption of travel between the two countries? Because in his opening spiel yesterday, it was a lengthy opening spiel—a length of 20-plus minutes—he didn’t even mention trans-Tasman travel. PM: Oh look, I think we are in exactly the same place, as you would expect when you release a joint press statement. By default, obviously, you’re in the same place on it. Media: But he neglected to mention it in his media conference post - National Cabinet until he was asked about it. PM: That does not in any way undermine the position that we both hold on this issue, which is that neither of us wishes to be responsible for cases popping up on either Prime Minister’s country. No one wants that responsibility on our shoulders, so I think what we’re both driven by is a desire to get our countries in relative positions to be able to do this safely. We are on the same page. We see the economic benefit, but we also see the risk. We’re determined to try and find a resolution. Jenna, yeah. Media: Sorry, just back on the contact-tracing app—does that have to be made available before we go into level 2? Is that on track to happen— PM: No, we’re not making it contingent, but of course we will have obligations that we expect of certain industries. So that will be—that, for instance, is part of our expectations for moving levels. Media: So could those hospitality guidelines be broadened to include retail, for example—would you look at that as a framework for other sectors? PM: Yeah, and, look, I’ve been really impressed by the work that retailers and the hospitality association are doing, because they can see already what needs to happen for people to be able to resume safely, and so they themselves have been doing some of the work in this space. But I’ll be commenting a bit more on that tomorrow. Media: We’ve heard of payday lenders setting debt collectors on people during lockdown. What’s your response to that? PM: You will have seen that we have expedited some of the work that we have been doing to put a bit more rigour around the way that some who operate as payday lenders and as loan sharks have operated. I think it’s probably in keeping with the kind of behaviour we’ve seen from these people in the past, and it shouldn’t be tolerated. Media: Do you think that they should show some form of compassion? PM: Basic humanity is what I think they should show, but we don’t always see that from that sector. Media: Just back on contact-tracing apps, is there any real point in pursuing them when you need quite a high download rate and 20 percent of people don’t have smart phones, and even in Singapore, where people are very cooperative with their Government— PM: Fourteen percent. Media: —they only got 20 percent penetration? PM: Yeah. One of the issues in Singapore that they freely identified was compatibility with iPhones. I note that they do have high Android use, but that still would be a significant issue for the likes of New Zealand and Australia. My understanding is Australia overcame that. They also—it was a significant drain on battery life and it interfered with people’s Bluetooth headphones. Anything that, I think, acts as a barrier to making it as simple as possible to engage in a tool like that is a problem. So I think that’s why you’ve heard me be sceptical, because I don’t wish for us to rely on that being the answer, because it never will be. It will be a helpful supplementary tool. Dr Bloomfield, though, you’d have views on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah, look, I think the more we learn—and I’m looking at European countries as well, and I think the UK made an announcement yesterday and they’re trialling something. Any of these apps has drawbacks—none of them are perfect. The important point for us is we’ve got our core contact-tracing system solid and achieving the sorts of time frames that we were aiming to achieve. I think one of the other things we’re thoughtful about too is we would like to think about—what we have seen through the COVID-19 response from the health system is some quite significant changes in the way that care is delivered to people through virtual means. And what we’re really interested in is thinking, if there is a role for an app, that it’s not just around contact tracing but it may have some potential longer-term benefits for people in terms of access to information—their information—about their health and enabling them to take better care of themselves and their whānau. Media: Are you still looking at the CovidCard—the Bluetooth-only card? PM: Yeah, so you will have seen that there’s been a number of options to get around the fact that people may not have the devices required for apps. So those were all things that we have given quite broad consideration to and haven’t yet settled on. One thing you also don’t hear people talking about too much—but I think is quite a useful device—is QR codes, because, of course, that potentially removes the requirement to have people physically registering at the door when they’re coming into hospitality—for instance, bars, cafes, restaurants. QR codes are a simple technological fix for that. So these are the range of options that we’d be willing to look at in our response into COVID. Media: In a level 2— PM: I’ll just come in the front of you, if you don’t mind. Media: Thank you. So, further to that, Rob Fyfe said recently that a solution could be a device that people carry around— PM: Yep. Media: —and that New Zealand could be world first in our contact tracing capabilities. Is that the CovidCard, or is there another device— PM: I believe that he’s talking about the CovidCard—a card—which has the same kind of functionality as a Bluetooth app. I believe that’s what he’ll be referring to. Media: So how far away would that be—do we have any time frames on it? PM: Again, as I’ve said, you know, we’ve been considering a range of different supplementary options, and there are a number of issues that you have to work through. Of course, it all comes down to human behaviour. The thing that stops a person downloading an app might well be the same things that stop a person from carrying something with them. That’s not to say that we’re not giving really thorough consideration to all of the options. Final decisions on something like that, though, you’d imagine you’d have to take a lot into account. Yeah, Jenna. Media: Looking at the current level 2 guidelines, the one that kind of sticks out like a sore thumb is the gatherings of up to 100 people indoors and 500 people outdoors. That’s a mass change from what we’re seeing at the moment. Will that remain tomorrow? PM: So I’ll be giving more detail tomorrow on the alert level framework, and what you will have seen us do as we’ve gone through the different stages, we do take a fresh look at the system that was created at the beginning of the pandemic, and what we apply is the latest knowledge, information, and evidence to that framework. We as a world, as a global community, have learnt a lot about COVID-19 in a short space of time, and that includes in the last four weeks. So you’ll see when we talk about the framework tomorrow that we will be using the most up-to-date information we can. Media: So should people be expecting to be able to have, say, a wedding of 100 people under level 2? PM: Again, you’ll see the advice that we provide tomorrow, and you’ll see that, as always, we do give guidance in advance to prepare people and then lots of advance notice before we move into the different levels as well. Media: On the Microsoft announcement, are there any large global companies which you know are looking to do similar investment in New Zealand, and also are you looking to invite other companies to set up headquarters or temporary offices here to sort of weather out the COVID crisis? PM: This actually is an issue that I’ve raised with the Minister for Economic Development but also Minister Woods. Within MBIE we do have a team who proactively go out and connect with often high-tech, high-wage emerging businesses to help facilitate entry into the New Zealand market and also help them navigate our regulatory environment. They do that in a really proactive way—in the same way that NZTE supports our exporters—in order to encourage high-quality investment in New Zealand. My view is that now is the time to continue with real extra effort and enthusiasm that work. New Zealand’s brand has always been that we are a sound, high-quality, reliable place to invest. I’d like to think that our response to this health crisis only further underpins or emphasises that approach. Now is the time for us to sell that message internationally. In terms of specific pitches, though, you know, some of that I leave to our Ministers, but I have certainly shared my view that now is the time to tell that story. Media: Prime Minister, you mentioned that we’ve learnt a lot about COVID-19 in a short space of time. Does that mean that we could see some considerable changes to some of the level 2 restrictions tomorrow? PM: No, I think you’ll see that we’re willing to use evidence in our decision making, and that’s important. There are things, of course, that we know about—lag times. Now, we see that you can still get a positive result for COVID many weeks after you’ve had it, and you may not be infectious but you can still test positive. We know the lag time of the virus and the vulnerability that presents, but we also have some of that core guidance—that if you’re with someone indoors for longer than two hours, that’s risky; if you’re in close contact with people, that’s risky. So it’s all about using that evidence to build a framework that gets people back to normal, but a safer normal. Media: Sorry, I know you’ve already made some points about the regional alert levels, but if we remain at level 3 beyond next week—if it is extended—would that be the point that you’d then look at changing alert levels on a region by region basis? PM: Again, some of this I wouldn’t mind just picking up tomorrow, because then I’d be able to talk with you with a little more specificity around the different arrangements at alert level 2. I’ll take the last few questions. Bernard, yeah. Media: On the Microsoft issue, there was your suggestion about trying to get more big companies to come here. Are you confident— PM: Trying to get quality investment to come here. Media: Yeah. Are you confident that Microsoft or Google or Facebook or some of— Amazon—would be proper taxpayers if they came here, and would you get assurances from them that they would pay their taxes properly here? PM: Look, everyone who comes into New Zealand knows the expectations that we have for how people will operate here, but one thing I want to point out is actually the relationship between New Zealand—and, again, I say this, all under the umbrella of certain regulatory processes needing to be complete for this particular investment. But what I want to say broadly is that actually Microsoft is a good example of a relationship that has strengthened in recent times. We’ve worked closely with Microsoft on initiatives like the Christchurch Call. We’ve got good personal relationships with the senior executives, and I think what you’ve seen as a reflection of their investment is that they see not only a strong regulatory framework here in New Zealand but also a strong digital future here in New Zealand as well. Media: But isn’t it also crowding out local firms who are more open-source— PM: No. Media: —and locking the Government into a single software provider? PM: No. What I’ve seen, actually, as a reflection of this kind of investment is the number of potentially smaller ICT companies who could benefit from it. It also adds a bit more comfort when it comes to data sovereignty through onshore storage, which has been an issue that’s being raised in many quarters. Yep, I’ll take the last few questions, and I’ll finish with Tova. Media: Just a couple of quick ones. COVID: the potential for an alert level 2 law—how far away is that, and could it hold up the move to level 2, figuring there’s only a small handful of days— PM: Yeah, obviously, we know this is work that needs to be completed with urgency. But for further questions on that, I’ll have the Attorney-General provide a little more context around the work that’s being done. Media: In all contact tracing, are you looking at any way—like South Korea has done—at a combination of like cellphone-tracking data and retail-spending data in order to sort of aggregate people’s movements and who they may have come into contact with? PM: You can imagine that, of course, all of the expectation we have as a society around people’s privacy means that whatever we do, we’re looking for people having an acceptance of the role that technological solution and handing over their information can play in this response. So we’re working with the Privacy Commissioner on the kinds of initiatives that can actually balance people’s privacy with also the need to respond to this pandemic. Media: So it’s off the cards, such a— PM: Not in—we wouldn’t do it in an automated way, but that’s not to say we aren’t thinking about all the different tools we could use that would satisfy privacy issues and people’s permission being given for being involved in anything that really reaches into their privacy. Media: Prime Minister, people who normally live in New Zealand and have permanent residency or work visas are struggling to get home from South Africa, despite the flights being available. Do officials need to do more to get everyone home who lives in New Zealand, and not just citizens? PM: They’ve been doing an extraordinary amount of work—tens of thousands of New Zealanders being supported in what is the biggest consular exercise that we can remember in MFAT’s history. It is a big exercise, though. I know that there is more work that MFAT’s doing within certain parts of the world, but that is an ongoing piece of work. Bringing New Zealanders home has been tough, but they have done an amazing job. Media: But are we doing that at the expense of perhaps some people who live here but aren’t citizens or residents? PM: We’ve of course been involving—it hasn’t just been citizens who have been coming home. But anything with more specific detail, I would need to ask MFAT to help provide that advice. All right, thank you everyone. Media: On Mother’s Day, can you quickly please— PM: I’m back tomorrow. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of the daily media conference 6 May
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers : Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of daily media conference 7 May 2020
Home Updates Transcript of daily media conference 7 May 2020 --- Section Separator --- PM : Right, kia ora koutou katoa. We’ll start with an update from Dr Bloomfield, after which I’ll set out further details on how New Zealand will operate under alert level 2 when it comes time to safely move there. But first, Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we’re reporting one new confirmed case of COVID-19. This person has tested positive and is a household contact of a previously confirmed case linked to the Matamata cluster. The Waikato DHB is publicly calling for anyone in Matamata who is concerned that they may have been exposed to COVID-19, regardless of whether they were directly involved in the St Patrick’s Day event that led to this cluster, to immediately seek advice if they want to look at getting tested. So today’s case brings the total of confirmed and probable COVID-19 cases to 1,489, and of these 1,339 are confirmed cases. We now have 1,332 people who are reported as having recovered from the COVID-19 infection, which is 89 percent of all cases. Today, there remain two people in hospital, one in Middlemore and one in Auckland City Hospital. Neither are in ICU. We still have the 16 significant clusters—no increase in those—and I’m pleased to say no further deaths to report today. Yesterday, our laboratories processed a record 7,323 tests, bringing the total number of tests undertaken to date to 168,023. It’s very encouraging to see these testing numbers increase again after the weekend, and this is a reminder to anyone who has symptoms to seek advice about getting tested, and the high numbers also reflect the work our district health boards are doing to ensure that there is good surveillance testing happening in their regions. Just a word on aged residential care: I talked last week about some work we were doing with the Aged Care Association and nominated clinicians on what we have learnt about and what we can do to further strengthen prevention and management of COVID-19 in this important setting. So a new questionnaire has been developed in collaboration with the district health boards and the Aged Care Association about the role of testing and other screening processes for new residents going into aged care. This has been released—the questionnaire—just last evening, I think, on our website. It is there to see, and a very good piece of collaborative work, and I think incorporating all the learnings from our experience to date and led by clinicians nominated by all parties. Just an update quickly on our exemptions review: the initial review of 32 of the previous decisions on exemptions has now been completed. You’ll recall alongside this I had asked the team to do a review of the criteria for assessing these exceptional requests, and to incorporate the findings of the judgment from last week into that review. So the review process undertaken to date, against the pre-existing criteria, found that all the decisions had been made, both in terms of process and finding, correctly, and so there was no change. However, it has also found, and as it goes through, that some of these would be different if they were assessed against the updated criteria, which incorporate the findings from last week’s High Court decision. So there has been media coverage already on the outcome of one of those decisions and a person has left managed isolation to go and visit a dying relative. The ministry team is now completing these reviews rapidly at this point and contacting and working with all those affected. They will be completed by the end of today. Finally, a word on masks—another subject of interest today. We’ve just published today an updated review of the evidence on the use of masks in the general setting by the general public, including both the risks and benefits. It’s a very good but very readable review. The key finding of the review, which was commissioned by the ministry’s Chief Science Advisor, Professor Ian Town, is that the science remains inconclusive; there are both risks and benefits, and there is a range of approaches being taken by many different countries. That’s all laid out in that updated review. So we know there is ongoing interest, and what I’ve asked is that that review now be referred to our technical advisory group for consideration to see if we should update our current recommendations for the general public. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. For six weeks now, our lives have been quite different. We’ve gone from a lockdown into level 3 and the reopening of parts of our economy, as our team of five million has stuck to our strategy of going hard and going early to win the battle against COVID-19. We can be proud of what we have achieved: low numbers of new cases, and two days where we were without any; increases in testing, including actively testing those who might be at risk of COVID-19 as we hunt to find any burning embers of the virus. Amongst the health response, we’ve seen the ingenuity of Kiwis, who have understood what was needed to operate at level 3 safely and have made it work. Even more pleasing is how well these owners and operators have been supported, with Kiwis being mindful of the people and livelihoods that sit behind a meal, a parcel, a takeaway lunch. Those businesses reopened their doors, and we have begun reopening our economy. Now we find ourselves in a unique position again. On Monday, Cabinet will consider the next stage of our response. We will do that with the best evidence and advice we can, with all of the data we have from almost one more full cycle of the virus. We need every number from every single day to get the full set of data, and we need, of course, the view of the Director-General of Health. We will make a balanced decision; one that recognises the impact of restrictions and the huge impact of restrictions on people’s livelihoods but doesn’t risk all of the gains that we have made today. After all, no one wants a second wave—no one. As restrictions have been relaxed in other countries around the world, the virus has had the opportunity to bounce back, and in some places it has. Ultimately, we need to stay in control. So the key for us has always been to understand where we are at in any given time in our battle with COVID and then make sure we are at the right alert level to put us in the best position to continue beating it. Every alert level, therefore, has its own battle, and even when you win one, it doesn’t mean that the war is over. So a quick reminder, again, of the framework we have been using to help us on this journey. As the alert level system makes clear, different levels allow different amounts of contact with one another, depending on how bad the spread of COVID-19 is. At alert level 4, the aim is to eliminate contact with each other, and that is what a full lockdown achieves. At level 3, “restrict”, there is still a high risk the virus can get out of control and bounce back, so the goal remains to restrict contact with one another as much as possible. At level 2, the aim is still to reduce close contact with strangers. It acknowledges that the virus is probably still with us; so we do need to behave differently to prevent it taking off again. It is very unlikely that we have hunted down every single case of COVID-19. If stray cases start new chains of transmission, we might not find them for a month, so we all have to stay on guard. Level 2 has been designed to get as many people back to work as possible and the economy back up and running but in the safest way possible. In a nutshell, the principle behind level 2 is “play it safe”. We will only move there if things are under control. But it won’t mean the fight is over. If we adopt a safer way of operating as part of our new normal, we can keep it in check and remain on our path of elimination. So now for the principles of “playing it safe.” First, we have our constants: public health measures remain unchanged. If you are even slightly sick, stay home. I know this is against New Zealanders stoic intuition, but I cannot reiterate this enough: if you are sick, please stay at home. If you have symptoms, even if it is just a runny nose, a sore throat, get a test. And, now more than ever, wash your hands often and properly all of the time. Wash all high-touch surfaces regularly, like your keys and door handles, and don’t pass other people your phone. The border remains unchanged. We’ll continue to keep our borders closed, except to Kiwis. We will continue to isolate Kiwis who come in from overseas in managed hotels away from others. And our elimination strategy remains in place: test, contact-trace, isolate. This is our COVID business as usual. There are a few other things we want you to keep the same, and that includes your distance. You’ll hear people talk a lot about how far you should stay apart from others. Let me give you the rationale behind that. If you are sick, then you’ll sometimes have symptoms that will make you spread your illness—things like coughing. If that’s the case, the safest place for you is at home. But if someone doesn’t follow those rules, or doesn’t know they are sick, and leaves the house, the safest distance between you and that sick person is 2 metres. So that’s why we use that guideline. Now, as we’ve moved through the alert levels, you will be coming into contact with more people and more places. It’s not always easy to keep that much distance between you. So at alert level 2, playing it safe means 2 metres from strangers, but in your workplace or places where you’re around people you know or who we can contact trace later, we can live with less, because we can find you and we can find them. So let’s then talk about workplaces at level 2. Businesses can restart for staff and for customers. Services can be provided on customers’ premises—for example, in people’s homes. And people who haven’t been into their office spaces can return, but with good hygiene practices in place. But one thing to remember: COVID is still with us. The fewer people we can have contact-trace in a workplace, if we need to, the better. So while you can go back, it is still worth the conversation with your boss whether you have to be there in person. After all, many businesses may well have experienced the productivity gains of staggered start times, less congestion, and working from home. There’s no reason we should lose what we have learnt. Each business can work out its own situation. There is flexibility there. What is non-negotiable, though, are those basic hygiene practices. That brings me to those places of work where working from home was never an option: domestic cleaners, hairdressers, retail stores, cafes, restaurants, hospitality. At level 2, when we get there, these operations can reopen, but they all must play it safe, and that means doing things differently. For retail, that means physical distancing in store for both staff and customers. It means good hygiene practices and regular cleaning of surfaces and those things people touch often. Larger retailers and malls will follow the lead of our supermarkets, with measures like limiting the number of people in store to enable enough space for physical distancing. For hairdressers and beauticians, it means wearing appropriate PPE because of the close proximity you have with your customers throughout the day and because we want to protect you and your client. This is an area where we have given specific advice because it is virtually impossible to do this job without being in very close proximity to your clients and to having a large number of clients in any single day. So this is to mitigate that risk. For hospitality, be it a cafe, a restaurant, or a bar, playing it safe means using all of the evidence and advice we have to make rules that work. This means that only those businesses that can apply the three S’s will be able to operate. They are, firstly, people must be seated. That means you can only have as many people in your venue as you can safely seat, and no one, regardless of venue size, can have more than 100. The reason for this is simple: COVID loves congregations. Crowds of strangers with no physical distancing and no ability to tell who you are standing near is very, very difficult. It is much easier to separate people, keeping them physically distanced, and trace them if we make sure people are seated. This also helps to prevent the spread. Congested bars have already produced a massive cluster in New Zealand and we must avoid another. The second S: people must be separated. So there must be social distance in venue between people and tables. I acknowledge this may mean for some it is not economical to open, but that is up to each venue. Three: each table must have a single server. At every venue there must be table service, not people going up to counters, as this minimises contact and helps us to trace if we need to. So the three S’s again are: seated, separated, and single server. Finally, as you can imagine, contact tracing will also be key here. We are working on nationwide technological fix to make it easier for businesses to record who comes into their premises. This is likely to include QR codes, but, in the meantime, manual or basic digital recording will be used, which was being done by venues before we moved up the alert levels. Of course, it matters what happens outside the hospitality venues too, as we have seen in recent weeks. Operators will have a responsibility to manage customer contact outside their venue. If there are lines, for instance, people must be separated. Those who do not comply with these guidelines will be shut down and lose their ability to operate. As you can see, there are significant risks in hospitality, and so there are significant rules to manage those risks. These are all principles we’ve worked through with the Hospitality Association, including the three S’s. We both believe they can be made to work. That brings me to the issue of gatherings. Our journey in understanding this virus has also led us to reaffirm that at level 2 indoor gatherings are limited to a maximum of 100. I do want to just acknowledge that that is a maximum. Of course, many venues for their fire regulations, will not be able to have many, and many will not be able to physically seat that many. But we have also learnt a lot through this journey, and that means we will also limit outdoor gatherings to 100 people also. Previously, you will recall, it was 500 for outdoors, but I think everyone can see that big events lead to risk, and that risk can mean big clusters. I know this will affect many, but we have to have to keep working on getting things right so that we can get to place where larger events are possible again. In the meantime, we are thinking about the extra support required for sectors that will be on an ongoing basis affected by these limitations. For managed events like weddings, music events, religious services, funerals, these can be held at level 2 when we get there, but with all the same public health guidance and with the 100 person limit. Public venues such as museums and markets can also open again, but, again, the same rules of keeping your distance and good hygiene apply. Success or failure could depend on something as simple as how often you clean the handrails. This brings me to the issue of bubbles. Firstly, you no longer need to stick to your bubble. You can begin seeing family and friends again, but we do want you to hang onto the same principles that we are using generally in hospitality—issues around space and hygiene and contract tracing. If we have large-scale events held in people’s homes, then all of that becomes harder. That is why at alert level 2 we are saying that you can have friends and family over to your home but keep the numbers small so that you can practice all of those measures that were outlined across alert level 2. This is not the time for a large party or function at your home. We will be providing more specific guidance on this in the coming days. Now I want to come to the issue of moving around New Zealand. At the time of creating the alert level framework our cases numbers were limited. We now know a lot about risk. We know, for instance, that so long as you play it safe when you travel, we can minimise the risks. It’s what you do when you get there that is the problem. A trip from Wellington to Napier to see your mum is fine. A trip from Wellington to Napier to go to a big conference with an open bar is not fine. That’s why at level 2 we will be allowing people to move around the country again, but to do it safely. Keep your distance on public transport and at airports. Manage your social distancing. Remember the same practices apply wherever you go in the country. And those are practices that already those involved in large-scale transport are putting in place. I know this change will mean a lot to the likes of our tourism industry, and I know a lot of people are keen to support you. In fact, I got an email just last night from a wonderful Kiwi named Judith, who told me that “When we are on the other side of this, I plan to get a haircut, then to take a trip somewhere in New Zealand.” A lot of Kiwis share this sentiment, but we need to support our tourism industry safely to avoid us going back to square one. That brings me to recreation and sport; it’s quite different at level 2. At level 2, playgrounds, gyms, pools, and public courts are permitted to reopen, subject to meeting the required public health measures. All water activities can resume. Some community sports will be able to return to play more quickly than others while the necessary health requirements are worked through, so we ask that you give your club a chance to get up and running again and to work through some of those issues. We all want to get back to sport, but we want to take enough time to do it safely and to look after those who are involved in it. Professional sport will be able to resume domestically under level 2, with the necessary public health measures in place. Super Rugby and the netball premiership league have already confirmed their intention to resume a domestic competition at alert level 2, which I know will be cause for great excitement for many. The rules around mass gatherings will still apply, so there won’t be any stadium crowds for now, but sport will be played. Again, there is more detail to come on this area, and that will be made publicly available. And, last but not least, education. Early learning services, schools, and tertiary education facilities can open at level 2. I do want to emphasise that with so few cases in New Zealand, schools and early learning services are safe environments for children, young people, and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of the disease and to support contact tracing. Schools and early learning services will engage with parents about children returning at level 2. Distance learning is available for those unable to attend school, for example, those who are self-isolating because of potential contact with COVID. Tertiary education facilities too will maintain the core capability to deliver comprehensive distance learning to students if needed. If an education facility has a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 in the future, they must close on an individual or group basis for 72 hours to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days, if that is required. We also agreed that when we make the decision to move levels, schools won’t be opening mid-week. Whenever the decision is made, they will then open at the beginning of the following week. The same public health messages continue to apply to schools: keep children at home if they’re even slightly sick, and good hygiene such as hand washing are very important. Where possible, physical distancing is a good precaution. We do, however, know it is near possible in an early learning environment and very challenging in schools. So staying home if sick, good hygiene practices, and regular cleaning become even more important here. And all schools and early learning services will collect information about who’s there so public health can contact people quickly if needed. We know parents have lots of questions, but please give schools and early learning centres time to plan and contact you. And, again, just a reminder: we’re not moving there yet, this is just the framework. I hope that gives you a good sense of the rationale and principles of level 2: the place where we are still limiting contact with strangers, and where we must play it safe. As you can see, it is a large step from where we are now. So my last message today is a very important one: when it comes the time to move, we want to move with confidence. That means the Ministry of Health and experts giving us the best advice on how to do that. If that advice is to move in a phased way, because level 2 taken all at once has too many risks because, for instance, it includes gatherings of people, I would rather take that advice and move out slowly than be in level 3 longer than we need to. Equally, no one wants to make a decision that leads to us yo-yoing between levels. Now, again, no decisions have been made yet. The Director-General has not provided us with advice yet on what decision we should take on Monday. We wait for all of the data before we do that. But if reducing risks means taking several steps into level 2, rather than one big one, that may be what happens. But we all need to wait, and make that call when the time comes. And, finally, a reminder to stick to the plan. I know it’s Mothers’ Day this weekend and the urge to reach out will be strong, but we remain at level 3. And so if your mum is not in your bubble, then reach out over the phone or video, send a wee local present, and make plans to catch up when it’s safe to do so. There will no doubt be additional question beyond the broad overview I’ve given today, and details are available at the COVID website, including examples for different workplaces. We’ve tried to provide as much as we can and we’ve tried to work alongside industry and industry associations to develop guidance. It doesn’t mean, necessarily, we’ll have every answer. We’ve given ourselves time though, so if you’re a business, in particular, and you need a question answered, please do reach out to MBIE for further information. Ultimately, level 2 is our safer normal—not a return to business as usual. Treasury modelling did tell us we’re better off in the longer term to move down through the alerts progressively, so it does mean getting every stage right. It means both the decision to go there but also what we do when we get there. If we think of ourselves as halfway down Everest, I think it’s clear that no one wants to hike back up that peak. The descent is known to be even more dangerous, and so we need to proceed with caution, with the highest degree of confidence, and to look after one another on the way, and I absolutely believe we can do that. We’re now happy to take your questions. Media : Prime Minister, so many people will be letting out a sigh of relief in hearing these guidelines. Are you worried that people will now relax compliance? PM : No, because we have moved through stages before and, again, we are still in the early stages of being at alert level 3 in terms of results. The virus has a lag time, so we need to stay the course, but you’ll hear, from what we’ve said today, we’re eager to move too, but we want to do it safely, we want to do it carefully, and we want to remain vigilant. Media : If you do phase in level 2, what would be the priorities out of these guidelines that you’ve revealed today? PM : I don’t want to pre-empt any decisions, but what I want to indicate today is, of course, moving into level 2 is a large step. We would rather start that journey than to wait back in level 3 longer than we need to, but it may be that we get advice that the higher risk elements of level 2 may need a little more time. I’m not pre-empting that decision, though, because we are still waiting on the advice that we’ll receive from all of the experts, and we’ll be sharing that decision on Monday. Media : If we are to move into level 2 on Monday full bore, why not make that decision immediately? Why wait—I think, was it—48 hours that you said you’d wait until we actually made the shift? PM : Two things: that gives us that full two weeks, and we’ve always given that lead time for people to plan and prepare. It allows people to adjust their working arrangements. It allows them, if they’re a business, to prepare for opening. Even then, that’s quite a short turn-around for many businesses. Media : A phased approach—essentially, is that a level 2.5; and what restrictions would still be kept and what would be relaxed? PM : And again, I don’t want to pre-empt the decision that we are yet to make, but level 2 is a big step. The important thing for us is opening up as much of the economy as we can safely do so without squandering the gains we’ve made. So if the advice we receive from Health is “Take some cautious steps forward.”, then that’s advice we want to consider. We don’t want to rule out the option of phasing if that’s what’s needed to get there. Media : Will you look at measures such as mask wearing, for example, on travel? Will that be part of the consideration in terms of what the public might expect that they have to do along with what you’ve already outlined? PM : I’ll let Dr Bloomfield answer that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There certainly will be some recommendations for specific settings around wearing of masks: for example, the Prime Minister mentioned hairdressers and beauticians and talked about PPE—the primary thing being masks there makes good sense. And we’re looking again at, based on the evidence, whether we’re recommending people—or certainly not requiring but certainly recommending whether people more generally, the general public, wear masks in certain settings. At this stage, we think our advice stands, but we’re asking for our technical advisory group to get to us on that. Media : Would there be any issues of supply if suddenly the public was recommended or urged to use masks? Obviously, that would increase demand significantly. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s one of the things we’d want to look at. And, I guess, we know the value of masks in healthcare settings and in other settings and we want to make sure that they are available and being used appropriately in those settings. And then there will be other specific settings, and we want to make sure that people working in those settings who we’re proposing wear masks are also able to access them. Then, if we were going to look at wider wearing, even if that was in certain circumstances, we wouldn’t want to be recommending it if we couldn’t also be sure that people were able to access—and look, it needn’t necessarily be a disposable mask. You’ve seen other countries talk about cloth masks, even homemade ones, or face coverings; although, as you’ll see from the evidence review, the benefit of the cloth mask is lower than a standard surgical mask. PM : Just to add, you will have seen us reference PPE for people working in those fields where it’s impossible to remove close proximity and physical contact. And so we have asked the all-of-Government team just to make sure that we provide a bit of advice on accessing PPE for those who are working as beauticians or working as hairdressers. Media : Prime Minister, you talked about breaking your bubble, so for people at home who intend to break their bubble—say they want to have a dinner party or something like that—do you have a restriction on numbers you can have into your home? PM : Yeah, we will be providing further guidance on that in the days that are ahead. But what I would again urge is that, when we make the decision to move to alert level 2, we are still requiring people to play it safe. That means not having large gatherings, cramming people into your home, and dispensing of all of the advice we’ve had over this period of time. Yes, do catch up with your family, do catch up with your friends, but large gatherings are still a no-no. Media : Does that mean that people can go back to hugs and handshakes, or do they have to keep doing the West Coast wave? PM : Again, that’s actually—I might start with Dr Bloomfield and then respond to your West Coast wave. Media : Or East Coast wave, sorry. PM : I thought there might be something I’d missed on the West Coast. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it may well be on the West Coast now, if it’s being used more widely. Look, I think the key principle here is—and the Prime Minister’s talked about the 2 metres away from people you don’t know—1 metre generally in other settings is good if they’re people you know. And also keeping mindful of this overarching principle, which is if you have got a cold, don’t go out and, of course, don’t give even your family members a hug, really. Keep your germs to yourself. So hongi, I think, is an issue for iwi to work through. We will, of course, be providing guidance and principles. For my part, I’m looking forward to giving some of my more extended family members and friends a careful hug, but for work colleagues and, perhaps, people I’m meeting for the first time, I’ll be sticking to, probably, an elbow bump. PM : Yeah. I think keeping it limited at this stage is the advice that we would be giving. Media : Just to be very clear, so are people allowed to travel domestically for tourism specifically? PM : Yes. As you will have heard us outline today, it’s not so much the travel, although we want you to do that safely, it’s what you do when you get there that also matters. So, of course, if you’re engaging in activities with your family and you’re maintaining physical distance when you’re out and about, you’re mindful of your personal hygiene, then yes. But if you’re travelling for a large gathering in someone’s home or you intend to meet up with a large group of people, then that’s not a safe purpose for travel. Media : Is there different advice for people over 70 or with health conditions in terms of, for example, travel, recreation, any of those different activities? PM : The advice that we’re giving—and I’ll hand to Dr Ashley to expand on this—there for those who do have higher risks is just, again, for them to think about their own personal safety when they are out and about; so applying all of those precautions really rigorously. So keeping safe distances, personal hygiene—that all really applies, particularly to those groups who do have higher risks. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The only thing I would add, of course, is also for others to look after and continue to keep those people safe, because if they do get infected then they’re more likely to get a poorer outcome. Media : Prime Minister, there are some pretty nervous parents out there. How confident are you that we’re not going to see another Marist College school cluster? PM : We won’t be moving into alert level 2 unless we believe it’s safe to do so. So I absolutely understand all of the anxiety of a parent. And so the lens that we’ve been analysing these decisions and, indeed, creating the framework where we would see a reopening of education facilities is only if it is safe to do so. Media : Have you banned dancing—like, how will you police non-congregation of people at social events? PM : Of course, as you can see, the expectation here is limiting contact with strangers, and there are some circumstances where the whole point is to have contact with strangers. So that is a difficult situation for certain parts of hospitality, where that’s where their business is built around. So the safest way that we could determine that a business could operate was, actually, if they could fulfil certain criteria. So rather than describing which venues could open, we’ve described what they need to do if they want to reopen. They have to be able to seat every patron that’s there, they have to be able to separate all of those patrons from one another, and they have to be able to serve people at those tables. It does mean that certain venues—nightclubs, and so on—unless they adapt in that way, at alert level 2 they would not be able to operate. Media : How will it be policed? Like, have you actually created like a “fun police” that could actually ensure this stuff doesn’t— PM : The alternative, of course, is a hospitality industry that isn’t able to operate at alert level 2, and I don’t think that’s what people would want. So, instead, what we have done is looked at “What is it that we’re trying to achieve?” We’re trying to achieve reducing contact between strangers. It’s very, very difficult for the hospitality environment, so we’ve come up with some principles to try and achieve that and allow those businesses to reopen, but safely. It does mean for some it won’t be workable, but keep in mind the intent is not to be at alert level 2 forever; the goal is to keep moving through. But, while we’re there, we do need to be cautious. Media : Could you just clarify: in the 100 person limit—is that for a single room? Or could, for example, a convention centre have 200 people if there was 100 people spaced out in one area and 100 in another. PM : Gatherings. So those groups of people cannot intermingle with each other. You can imagine what it would be like with a conference venue with multiple groups passing through each other, using similar spaces, similar entry and exit places, similar bathroom facilities, how difficult it would be if you had one person with COVID in that environment, to then contact trace those individuals. So that’s why those limits are put in place. Media : Prime Minister, can you really allow bars and cafes and restaurants to open when many of them do not have contactless payments? So what is the Government doing to ensure they all take contactless payments? PM : They’re not required to take contactless payments at alert level 2. You’ll see what we’re accommodating, even, of course, in hospitality, you do have interaction with your servers; they’re bringing you food, they’re bringing you coffee. So there is that level of contact. That’s why we’re asking for single servers—reducing it down to as few people in that environment as you can—to reduce the chances of having to expose large groups of people to lots of different strangers in one environment. Media : But isn’t having these terminals where many, many patrons will share their hands with that terminal and servers to push their buttons in and slide their cards in—isn’t that dangerous? PM : And that is why the guidelines are very clear for retail, for hospitality: whether it is an EFTPOS terminal, the door handle you go into a space in, or the door handle you use into a bathroom facility—all of what they call “high-contact surfaces”—must be cleaned regularly. An EFTPOS terminal is not the only issue that we need retail and hospitality to be very aware of. That’s the first point. The second point is this demonstrates why that transition needs to be cautious, needs to be well-thought-through, because level 2, if you’re going to open up those parts of the economy, does open up more risk. Media : Why don’t you act more urgently to regulate the payments sector so that the fear that many hospitality and dairy owners have about fees is removed and they can properly use payWave? PM : As I’ve just suggested, Bernard, an EFTPOS terminal is one of many high-contact surfaces. Unless you want us to regulate that no business can have a door handle as well, we wouldn’t solve that problem. It’s all about hygiene practices and we need every facility, whether you’re a school, whether you’re a retail operator, whether or not you’re a restaurant, to be extra mindful of all of the surfaces that people have contact with. Dr Bloomfield might want to talk about that a bit more, though. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think you’ve covered the key principles there, Prime Minister. So availability of hand gel so people can use them if they are using EFTPOS terminals and the cleaning is just paramount there, and that applies to any setting. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you please give us an update on the Marist cluster? And, also, is there any evidence that young people are infectious while not showing outward signs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can update you on is that over 500 people now have been tested so far this week from that Marist community, and thus far just the single positive test that I talked about yesterday. We know that there is increasing evidence about asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic transmission of the virus, and so that’s one of the things that, of course, has been trickier for countries in how to manage and respond to this virus. And that applies in the school setting as in any other setting. So saying, as the Prime Minister said, we are moving towards alert level 2 in exactly the position we wanted to be in. We came out of alert level 4 with low numbers of cases, and increasingly confident about no community transmission or ongoing unidentifiable transmission inside clusters, remembering this is a household contact. And this is the same now. All the cases we’ve seen this week—and we had the two days with no cases, and yesterday and today—are all linked to existing cases or clusters, which is exactly where we want to be. Media : Is there strong enough evidence about infectious versus asymptomatic to be able to go into, for example, a school setting? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The evidence continues to emerge. We’ve got a better understanding now of how the virus transmits. But the key thing here is—whether it’s school, workplace, any other setting, including what would be high risk settings like, arguably, cafes or restaurants, where there are strangers there—we are increasingly close to being in a position to go into alert level 2 because of the low numbers of cases we’ve had through efforts from the lockdown. Media : Prime Minister, the finance Minister this morning said that he expected deficits to blow out for an extended period and also New Zealand’s debt levels to increase over the foreseeable future as well. Could you give us some sort of indication about what those sorts of numbers are going to look like and if that’s appropriate? PM : No, I can’t give you those indications at this stage, but what I would say is that New Zealand isn’t in isolation here. The entire world is going to experience the prolonged economic pain of COVID-19. And I expect you’ll see that in other countries’ debt levels, and also you’ll see it in their economic plans for recovery, as you’ll see here in New Zealand. One of the unique positions, though, that we have that puts us in a better place than other parts of the world is we went hard and we went early. That will, therefore, I think, reap benefits for us in terms of opening the economy back up. Media : But is it worth it to take on that much extra debt and to see our deficits blow out? PM : Again, every decision that’s made in terms of spending for recovery or for rebuild is made with the very distinct goal of ensuring that we are creating jobs, that we’re supporting people through a very challenging economic period in our history. This is a one in 100 year event, and you will see us, though, apply the same rigor to our economic decision making that we always have, to make balanced decisions, to put people first. Media : What will the restrictions on the numbers of people mean in places like ski fields, for example? Will they be able to reopen? PM : In open air, obviously, golf courses, for instance, places where you have a large number of players, it’s obviously a different sets of circumstances. When we’re talking about those mass gatherings, it’s where you’ve got those congregations of individuals that we really need to be really mindful of the contact that people have with one another. Media : Prime Minister, you’ve mentioned in the past that when we move down alert levels you expect checkpoints, iwi-led checkpoints, community checkpoints, to close down. Is your expectation that when we get to level 2 all of those checkpoints will be closed immediately, or will you give some discretion to those local communities? PM : The principle here is that we wouldn’t be making a decision, and, indeed, we haven’t made one yet to move to alert level 2 unless we have the information from the Director-General and the experts to say that it’s safe. So the point of those checkpoints, I know, was to look after communities, and we won’t be introducing regional travel and an opening up of the economy unless we believe that it’s safe and it’s time to do so. Media : I have a question for Dr Bloomfield. You said, Dr Bloomfield, hongi will be an issue for iwi and we will provide guidance on that. Could you explain what you mean? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think the decision lies with individual iwi about hongi, but we’ll have our Māori team, led by John Whaanga, provide advice and in discussion and consultation with our Māori advisory group. Media : So the reason, Dr Bloomfield, you said specifically that hongi will be an issue for iwi, is that because hongi, you believe, has added risks for communities? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, rather, I think the decision about using hongi, because it’s such an important cultural practice, lies with iwi and it’s not one that—and we can give guidance about what the expectations are and the risks are at alert level 2, but I think iwi are very able, as they have shown to date, to make decisions around when hongi are appropriate or not. Media : Prime Minister, what will level 2 mean for hospitals in terms of visitor numbers and elective surgeries? PM : I’ll leave that to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So elective surgery is already, under alert level 3, winding up to get back to the highest level we can while keeping the environment safe, and acknowledging that there is a backlog of care that needs to be provided to people. As we move to alert level 2, we will have further guidance around visitor policies in hospitals, and it won’t be back to situation normal. It will be based on the same principles as every other setting about physical distancing, making sure that there is good hygiene, and so on. Media : A question on the PPE review. Three staff members from North Shore Hospital have told us that they’ve been discouraged from wearing masks by management, with two sources saying they’ve been told to remove masks as it may scare the patients, and another saying that they’re worried about asking for a mask because they fell they’ll be bullied for being overdramatic. Is that appropriate? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, of course, bullying’s not appropriate in any setting. That sounds like an issue specifically for that district health board to follow up. The PPE review that the Minister directed was specifically about the distribution of PPE from DHBs out to the range of community providers, and I can say—because I reviewed all the material that came in—it provided a reassuring picture and some areas that we will continue to work with DHBs on. Media : But stories like this that we keep hearing don’t provide a reassuring picture at all, do they? So there’s a flaw in the distribution flow. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, that’s not a distribution issue you’re talking about; that’s about the interactions between individual clinicians and leaders within the healthcare institution about appropriate use of PPE. What I am also very confident about is that DHBs are using the guidance, the national guidance, to make sure that staff have available the PPE to use in accordance with that guidance. Media : Prime Minister, are you confident in the enforcement of level 2’s rules, given that they’re much more relaxed? PM : Yes, and, as I’ve said, the Attorney-General is working through some final elements to support the enforcement at level 2. Media : Prime Minister, what would trigger a move backwards from level 2? PM : Outbreaks of cases. You’ve seen what it’s taken to get us down to where we are, but if we did have an outbreak, if we did see those cases ramping up, then we would have to be prepared to move again. No one wants that, which is why it’s about being vigilant, making sure that we’re balancing the opening of the economy, we’re not squandering the gains we’ve made. But you will see us make a balanced decision. That’s what we’ve done every time so far. Thanks everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Right, kia ora koutou katoa. We’ll start with an update from Dr Bloomfield, after which I’ll set out further details on how New Zealand will operate under alert level 2 when it comes time to safely move there. But first, Dr Bloomfield. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we’re reporting one new confirmed case of COVID-19. This person has tested positive and is a household contact of a previously confirmed case linked to the Matamata cluster. The Waikato DHB is publicly calling for anyone in Matamata who is concerned that they may have been exposed to COVID-19, regardless of whether they were directly involved in the St Patrick’s Day event that led to this cluster, to immediately seek advice if they want to look at getting tested. So today’s case brings the total of confirmed and probable COVID-19 cases to 1,489, and of these 1,339 are confirmed cases. We now have 1,332 people who are reported as having recovered from the COVID-19 infection, which is 89 percent of all cases. Today, there remain two people in hospital, one in Middlemore and one in Auckland City Hospital. Neither are in ICU. We still have the 16 significant clusters—no increase in those—and I’m pleased to say no further deaths to report today. Yesterday, our laboratories processed a record 7,323 tests, bringing the total number of tests undertaken to date to 168,023. It’s very encouraging to see these testing numbers increase again after the weekend, and this is a reminder to anyone who has symptoms to seek advice about getting tested, and the high numbers also reflect the work our district health boards are doing to ensure that there is good surveillance testing happening in their regions. Just a word on aged residential care: I talked last week about some work we were doing with the Aged Care Association and nominated clinicians on what we have learnt about and what we can do to further strengthen prevention and management of COVID-19 in this important setting. So a new questionnaire has been developed in collaboration with the district health boards and the Aged Care Association about the role of testing and other screening processes for new residents going into aged care. This has been released—the questionnaire—just last evening, I think, on our website. It is there to see, and a very good piece of collaborative work, and I think incorporating all the learnings from our experience to date and led by clinicians nominated by all parties. Just an update quickly on our exemptions review: the initial review of 32 of the previous decisions on exemptions has now been completed. You’ll recall alongside this I had asked the team to do a review of the criteria for assessing these exceptional requests, and to incorporate the findings of the judgment from last week into that review. So the review process undertaken to date, against the pre-existing criteria, found that all the decisions had been made, both in terms of process and finding, correctly, and so there was no change. However, it has also found, and as it goes through, that some of these would be different if they were assessed against the updated criteria, which incorporate the findings from last week’s High Court decision. So there has been media coverage already on the outcome of one of those decisions and a person has left managed isolation to go and visit a dying relative. The ministry team is now completing these reviews rapidly at this point and contacting and working with all those affected. They will be completed by the end of today. Finally, a word on masks—another subject of interest today. We’ve just published today an updated review of the evidence on the use of masks in the general setting by the general public, including both the risks and benefits. It’s a very good but very readable review. The key finding of the review, which was commissioned by the ministry’s Chief Science Advisor, Professor Ian Town, is that the science remains inconclusive; there are both risks and benefits, and there is a range of approaches being taken by many different countries. That’s all laid out in that updated review. So we know there is ongoing interest, and what I’ve asked is that that review now be referred to our technical advisory group for consideration to see if we should update our current recommendations for the general public. Thank you, Prime Minister. --- Section Separator --- PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. For six weeks now, our lives have been quite different. We’ve gone from a lockdown into level 3 and the reopening of parts of our economy, as our team of five million has stuck to our strategy of going hard and going early to win the battle against COVID-19. We can be proud of what we have achieved: low numbers of new cases, and two days where we were without any; increases in testing, including actively testing those who might be at risk of COVID-19 as we hunt to find any burning embers of the virus. Amongst the health response, we’ve seen the ingenuity of Kiwis, who have understood what was needed to operate at level 3 safely and have made it work. Even more pleasing is how well these owners and operators have been supported, with Kiwis being mindful of the people and livelihoods that sit behind a meal, a parcel, a takeaway lunch. Those businesses reopened their doors, and we have begun reopening our economy. Now we find ourselves in a unique position again. On Monday, Cabinet will consider the next stage of our response. We will do that with the best evidence and advice we can, with all of the data we have from almost one more full cycle of the virus. We need every number from every single day to get the full set of data, and we need, of course, the view of the Director-General of Health. We will make a balanced decision; one that recognises the impact of restrictions and the huge impact of restrictions on people’s livelihoods but doesn’t risk all of the gains that we have made today. After all, no one wants a second wave—no one. As restrictions have been relaxed in other countries around the world, the virus has had the opportunity to bounce back, and in some places it has. Ultimately, we need to stay in control. So the key for us has always been to understand where we are at in any given time in our battle with COVID and then make sure we are at the right alert level to put us in the best position to continue beating it. Every alert level, therefore, has its own battle, and even when you win one, it doesn’t mean that the war is over. So a quick reminder, again, of the framework we have been using to help us on this journey. As the alert level system makes clear, different levels allow different amounts of contact with one another, depending on how bad the spread of COVID-19 is. At alert level 4, the aim is to eliminate contact with each other, and that is what a full lockdown achieves. At level 3, “restrict”, there is still a high risk the virus can get out of control and bounce back, so the goal remains to restrict contact with one another as much as possible. At level 2, the aim is still to reduce close contact with strangers. It acknowledges that the virus is probably still with us; so we do need to behave differently to prevent it taking off again. It is very unlikely that we have hunted down every single case of COVID-19. If stray cases start new chains of transmission, we might not find them for a month, so we all have to stay on guard. Level 2 has been designed to get as many people back to work as possible and the economy back up and running but in the safest way possible. In a nutshell, the principle behind level 2 is “play it safe”. We will only move there if things are under control. But it won’t mean the fight is over. If we adopt a safer way of operating as part of our new normal, we can keep it in check and remain on our path of elimination. So now for the principles of “playing it safe.” First, we have our constants: public health measures remain unchanged. If you are even slightly sick, stay home. I know this is against New Zealanders stoic intuition, but I cannot reiterate this enough: if you are sick, please stay at home. If you have symptoms, even if it is just a runny nose, a sore throat, get a test. And, now more than ever, wash your hands often and properly all of the time. Wash all high-touch surfaces regularly, like your keys and door handles, and don’t pass other people your phone. The border remains unchanged. We’ll continue to keep our borders closed, except to Kiwis. We will continue to isolate Kiwis who come in from overseas in managed hotels away from others. And our elimination strategy remains in place: test, contact-trace, isolate. This is our COVID business as usual. There are a few other things we want you to keep the same, and that includes your distance. You’ll hear people talk a lot about how far you should stay apart from others. Let me give you the rationale behind that. If you are sick, then you’ll sometimes have symptoms that will make you spread your illness—things like coughing. If that’s the case, the safest place for you is at home. But if someone doesn’t follow those rules, or doesn’t know they are sick, and leaves the house, the safest distance between you and that sick person is 2 metres. So that’s why we use that guideline. Now, as we’ve moved through the alert levels, you will be coming into contact with more people and more places. It’s not always easy to keep that much distance between you. So at alert level 2, playing it safe means 2 metres from strangers, but in your workplace or places where you’re around people you know or who we can contact trace later, we can live with less, because we can find you and we can find them. So let’s then talk about workplaces at level 2. Businesses can restart for staff and for customers. Services can be provided on customers’ premises—for example, in people’s homes. And people who haven’t been into their office spaces can return, but with good hygiene practices in place. But one thing to remember: COVID is still with us. The fewer people we can have contact-trace in a workplace, if we need to, the better. So while you can go back, it is still worth the conversation with your boss whether you have to be there in person. After all, many businesses may well have experienced the productivity gains of staggered start times, less congestion, and working from home. There’s no reason we should lose what we have learnt. Each business can work out its own situation. There is flexibility there. What is non-negotiable, though, are those basic hygiene practices. That brings me to those places of work where working from home was never an option: domestic cleaners, hairdressers, retail stores, cafes, restaurants, hospitality. At level 2, when we get there, these operations can reopen, but they all must play it safe, and that means doing things differently. For retail, that means physical distancing in store for both staff and customers. It means good hygiene practices and regular cleaning of surfaces and those things people touch often. Larger retailers and malls will follow the lead of our supermarkets, with measures like limiting the number of people in store to enable enough space for physical distancing. For hairdressers and beauticians, it means wearing appropriate PPE because of the close proximity you have with your customers throughout the day and because we want to protect you and your client. This is an area where we have given specific advice because it is virtually impossible to do this job without being in very close proximity to your clients and to having a large number of clients in any single day. So this is to mitigate that risk. For hospitality, be it a cafe, a restaurant, or a bar, playing it safe means using all of the evidence and advice we have to make rules that work. This means that only those businesses that can apply the three S’s will be able to operate. They are, firstly, people must be seated. That means you can only have as many people in your venue as you can safely seat, and no one, regardless of venue size, can have more than 100. The reason for this is simple: COVID loves congregations. Crowds of strangers with no physical distancing and no ability to tell who you are standing near is very, very difficult. It is much easier to separate people, keeping them physically distanced, and trace them if we make sure people are seated. This also helps to prevent the spread. Congested bars have already produced a massive cluster in New Zealand and we must avoid another. The second S: people must be separated. So there must be social distance in venue between people and tables. I acknowledge this may mean for some it is not economical to open, but that is up to each venue. Three: each table must have a single server. At every venue there must be table service, not people going up to counters, as this minimises contact and helps us to trace if we need to. So the three S’s again are: seated, separated, and single server. Finally, as you can imagine, contact tracing will also be key here. We are working on nationwide technological fix to make it easier for businesses to record who comes into their premises. This is likely to include QR codes, but, in the meantime, manual or basic digital recording will be used, which was being done by venues before we moved up the alert levels. Of course, it matters what happens outside the hospitality venues too, as we have seen in recent weeks. Operators will have a responsibility to manage customer contact outside their venue. If there are lines, for instance, people must be separated. Those who do not comply with these guidelines will be shut down and lose their ability to operate. As you can see, there are significant risks in hospitality, and so there are significant rules to manage those risks. These are all principles we’ve worked through with the Hospitality Association, including the three S’s. We both believe they can be made to work. That brings me to the issue of gatherings. Our journey in understanding this virus has also led us to reaffirm that at level 2 indoor gatherings are limited to a maximum of 100. I do want to just acknowledge that that is a maximum. Of course, many venues for their fire regulations, will not be able to have many, and many will not be able to physically seat that many. But we have also learnt a lot through this journey, and that means we will also limit outdoor gatherings to 100 people also. Previously, you will recall, it was 500 for outdoors, but I think everyone can see that big events lead to risk, and that risk can mean big clusters. I know this will affect many, but we have to have to keep working on getting things right so that we can get to place where larger events are possible again. In the meantime, we are thinking about the extra support required for sectors that will be on an ongoing basis affected by these limitations. For managed events like weddings, music events, religious services, funerals, these can be held at level 2 when we get there, but with all the same public health guidance and with the 100 person limit. Public venues such as museums and markets can also open again, but, again, the same rules of keeping your distance and good hygiene apply. Success or failure could depend on something as simple as how often you clean the handrails. This brings me to the issue of bubbles. Firstly, you no longer need to stick to your bubble. You can begin seeing family and friends again, but we do want you to hang onto the same principles that we are using generally in hospitality—issues around space and hygiene and contract tracing. If we have large-scale events held in people’s homes, then all of that becomes harder. That is why at alert level 2 we are saying that you can have friends and family over to your home but keep the numbers small so that you can practice all of those measures that were outlined across alert level 2. This is not the time for a large party or function at your home. We will be providing more specific guidance on this in the coming days. Now I want to come to the issue of moving around New Zealand. At the time of creating the alert level framework our cases numbers were limited. We now know a lot about risk. We know, for instance, that so long as you play it safe when you travel, we can minimise the risks. It’s what you do when you get there that is the problem. A trip from Wellington to Napier to see your mum is fine. A trip from Wellington to Napier to go to a big conference with an open bar is not fine. That’s why at level 2 we will be allowing people to move around the country again, but to do it safely. Keep your distance on public transport and at airports. Manage your social distancing. Remember the same practices apply wherever you go in the country. And those are practices that already those involved in large-scale transport are putting in place. I know this change will mean a lot to the likes of our tourism industry, and I know a lot of people are keen to support you. In fact, I got an email just last night from a wonderful Kiwi named Judith, who told me that “When we are on the other side of this, I plan to get a haircut, then to take a trip somewhere in New Zealand.” A lot of Kiwis share this sentiment, but we need to support our tourism industry safely to avoid us going back to square one. That brings me to recreation and sport; it’s quite different at level 2. At level 2, playgrounds, gyms, pools, and public courts are permitted to reopen, subject to meeting the required public health measures. All water activities can resume. Some community sports will be able to return to play more quickly than others while the necessary health requirements are worked through, so we ask that you give your club a chance to get up and running again and to work through some of those issues. We all want to get back to sport, but we want to take enough time to do it safely and to look after those who are involved in it. Professional sport will be able to resume domestically under level 2, with the necessary public health measures in place. Super Rugby and the netball premiership league have already confirmed their intention to resume a domestic competition at alert level 2, which I know will be cause for great excitement for many. The rules around mass gatherings will still apply, so there won’t be any stadium crowds for now, but sport will be played. Again, there is more detail to come on this area, and that will be made publicly available. And, last but not least, education. Early learning services, schools, and tertiary education facilities can open at level 2. I do want to emphasise that with so few cases in New Zealand, schools and early learning services are safe environments for children, young people, and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of the disease and to support contact tracing. Schools and early learning services will engage with parents about children returning at level 2. Distance learning is available for those unable to attend school, for example, those who are self-isolating because of potential contact with COVID. Tertiary education facilities too will maintain the core capability to deliver comprehensive distance learning to students if needed. If an education facility has a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 in the future, they must close on an individual or group basis for 72 hours to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days, if that is required. We also agreed that when we make the decision to move levels, schools won’t be opening mid-week. Whenever the decision is made, they will then open at the beginning of the following week. The same public health messages continue to apply to schools: keep children at home if they’re even slightly sick, and good hygiene such as hand washing are very important. Where possible, physical distancing is a good precaution. We do, however, know it is near possible in an early learning environment and very challenging in schools. So staying home if sick, good hygiene practices, and regular cleaning become even more important here. And all schools and early learning services will collect information about who’s there so public health can contact people quickly if needed. We know parents have lots of questions, but please give schools and early learning centres time to plan and contact you. And, again, just a reminder: we’re not moving there yet, this is just the framework. I hope that gives you a good sense of the rationale and principles of level 2: the place where we are still limiting contact with strangers, and where we must play it safe. As you can see, it is a large step from where we are now. So my last message today is a very important one: when it comes the time to move, we want to move with confidence. That means the Ministry of Health and experts giving us the best advice on how to do that. If that advice is to move in a phased way, because level 2 taken all at once has too many risks because, for instance, it includes gatherings of people, I would rather take that advice and move out slowly than be in level 3 longer than we need to. Equally, no one wants to make a decision that leads to us yo-yoing between levels. Now, again, no decisions have been made yet. The Director-General has not provided us with advice yet on what decision we should take on Monday. We wait for all of the data before we do that. But if reducing risks means taking several steps into level 2, rather than one big one, that may be what happens. But we all need to wait, and make that call when the time comes. And, finally, a reminder to stick to the plan. I know it’s Mothers’ Day this weekend and the urge to reach out will be strong, but we remain at level 3. And so if your mum is not in your bubble, then reach out over the phone or video, send a wee local present, and make plans to catch up when it’s safe to do so. There will no doubt be additional question beyond the broad overview I’ve given today, and details are available at the COVID website, including examples for different workplaces. We’ve tried to provide as much as we can and we’ve tried to work alongside industry and industry associations to develop guidance. It doesn’t mean, necessarily, we’ll have every answer. We’ve given ourselves time though, so if you’re a business, in particular, and you need a question answered, please do reach out to MBIE for further information. Ultimately, level 2 is our safer normal—not a return to business as usual. Treasury modelling did tell us we’re better off in the longer term to move down through the alerts progressively, so it does mean getting every stage right. It means both the decision to go there but also what we do when we get there. If we think of ourselves as halfway down Everest, I think it’s clear that no one wants to hike back up that peak. The descent is known to be even more dangerous, and so we need to proceed with caution, with the highest degree of confidence, and to look after one another on the way, and I absolutely believe we can do that. We’re now happy to take your questions. --- Section Separator --- Media : Prime Minister, so many people will be letting out a sigh of relief in hearing these guidelines. Are you worried that people will now relax compliance? PM : No, because we have moved through stages before and, again, we are still in the early stages of being at alert level 3 in terms of results. The virus has a lag time, so we need to stay the course, but you’ll hear, from what we’ve said today, we’re eager to move too, but we want to do it safely, we want to do it carefully, and we want to remain vigilant. Media : If you do phase in level 2, what would be the priorities out of these guidelines that you’ve revealed today? PM : I don’t want to pre-empt any decisions, but what I want to indicate today is, of course, moving into level 2 is a large step. We would rather start that journey than to wait back in level 3 longer than we need to, but it may be that we get advice that the higher risk elements of level 2 may need a little more time. I’m not pre-empting that decision, though, because we are still waiting on the advice that we’ll receive from all of the experts, and we’ll be sharing that decision on Monday. Media : If we are to move into level 2 on Monday full bore, why not make that decision immediately? Why wait—I think, was it—48 hours that you said you’d wait until we actually made the shift? PM : Two things: that gives us that full two weeks, and we’ve always given that lead time for people to plan and prepare. It allows people to adjust their working arrangements. It allows them, if they’re a business, to prepare for opening. Even then, that’s quite a short turn-around for many businesses. Media : A phased approach—essentially, is that a level 2.5; and what restrictions would still be kept and what would be relaxed? PM : And again, I don’t want to pre-empt the decision that we are yet to make, but level 2 is a big step. The important thing for us is opening up as much of the economy as we can safely do so without squandering the gains we’ve made. So if the advice we receive from Health is “Take some cautious steps forward.”, then that’s advice we want to consider. We don’t want to rule out the option of phasing if that’s what’s needed to get there. Media : Will you look at measures such as mask wearing, for example, on travel? Will that be part of the consideration in terms of what the public might expect that they have to do along with what you’ve already outlined? PM : I’ll let Dr Bloomfield answer that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There certainly will be some recommendations for specific settings around wearing of masks: for example, the Prime Minister mentioned hairdressers and beauticians and talked about PPE—the primary thing being masks there makes good sense. And we’re looking again at, based on the evidence, whether we’re recommending people—or certainly not requiring but certainly recommending whether people more generally, the general public, wear masks in certain settings. At this stage, we think our advice stands, but we’re asking for our technical advisory group to get to us on that. Media : Would there be any issues of supply if suddenly the public was recommended or urged to use masks? Obviously, that would increase demand significantly. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s one of the things we’d want to look at. And, I guess, we know the value of masks in healthcare settings and in other settings and we want to make sure that they are available and being used appropriately in those settings. And then there will be other specific settings, and we want to make sure that people working in those settings who we’re proposing wear masks are also able to access them. Then, if we were going to look at wider wearing, even if that was in certain circumstances, we wouldn’t want to be recommending it if we couldn’t also be sure that people were able to access—and look, it needn’t necessarily be a disposable mask. You’ve seen other countries talk about cloth masks, even homemade ones, or face coverings; although, as you’ll see from the evidence review, the benefit of the cloth mask is lower than a standard surgical mask. PM : Just to add, you will have seen us reference PPE for people working in those fields where it’s impossible to remove close proximity and physical contact. And so we have asked the all-of-Government team just to make sure that we provide a bit of advice on accessing PPE for those who are working as beauticians or working as hairdressers. Media : Prime Minister, you talked about breaking your bubble, so for people at home who intend to break their bubble—say they want to have a dinner party or something like that—do you have a restriction on numbers you can have into your home? PM : Yeah, we will be providing further guidance on that in the days that are ahead. But what I would again urge is that, when we make the decision to move to alert level 2, we are still requiring people to play it safe. That means not having large gatherings, cramming people into your home, and dispensing of all of the advice we’ve had over this period of time. Yes, do catch up with your family, do catch up with your friends, but large gatherings are still a no-no. Media : Does that mean that people can go back to hugs and handshakes, or do they have to keep doing the West Coast wave? PM : Again, that’s actually—I might start with Dr Bloomfield and then respond to your West Coast wave. Media : Or East Coast wave, sorry. PM : I thought there might be something I’d missed on the West Coast. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it may well be on the West Coast now, if it’s being used more widely. Look, I think the key principle here is—and the Prime Minister’s talked about the 2 metres away from people you don’t know—1 metre generally in other settings is good if they’re people you know. And also keeping mindful of this overarching principle, which is if you have got a cold, don’t go out and, of course, don’t give even your family members a hug, really. Keep your germs to yourself. So hongi, I think, is an issue for iwi to work through. We will, of course, be providing guidance and principles. For my part, I’m looking forward to giving some of my more extended family members and friends a careful hug, but for work colleagues and, perhaps, people I’m meeting for the first time, I’ll be sticking to, probably, an elbow bump. PM : Yeah. I think keeping it limited at this stage is the advice that we would be giving. Media : Just to be very clear, so are people allowed to travel domestically for tourism specifically? PM : Yes. As you will have heard us outline today, it’s not so much the travel, although we want you to do that safely, it’s what you do when you get there that also matters. So, of course, if you’re engaging in activities with your family and you’re maintaining physical distance when you’re out and about, you’re mindful of your personal hygiene, then yes. But if you’re travelling for a large gathering in someone’s home or you intend to meet up with a large group of people, then that’s not a safe purpose for travel. Media : Is there different advice for people over 70 or with health conditions in terms of, for example, travel, recreation, any of those different activities? PM : The advice that we’re giving—and I’ll hand to Dr Ashley to expand on this—there for those who do have higher risks is just, again, for them to think about their own personal safety when they are out and about; so applying all of those precautions really rigorously. So keeping safe distances, personal hygiene—that all really applies, particularly to those groups who do have higher risks. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The only thing I would add, of course, is also for others to look after and continue to keep those people safe, because if they do get infected then they’re more likely to get a poorer outcome. Media : Prime Minister, there are some pretty nervous parents out there. How confident are you that we’re not going to see another Marist College school cluster? PM : We won’t be moving into alert level 2 unless we believe it’s safe to do so. So I absolutely understand all of the anxiety of a parent. And so the lens that we’ve been analysing these decisions and, indeed, creating the framework where we would see a reopening of education facilities is only if it is safe to do so. Media : Have you banned dancing—like, how will you police non-congregation of people at social events? PM : Of course, as you can see, the expectation here is limiting contact with strangers, and there are some circumstances where the whole point is to have contact with strangers. So that is a difficult situation for certain parts of hospitality, where that’s where their business is built around. So the safest way that we could determine that a business could operate was, actually, if they could fulfil certain criteria. So rather than describing which venues could open, we’ve described what they need to do if they want to reopen. They have to be able to seat every patron that’s there, they have to be able to separate all of those patrons from one another, and they have to be able to serve people at those tables. It does mean that certain venues—nightclubs, and so on—unless they adapt in that way, at alert level 2 they would not be able to operate. Media : How will it be policed? Like, have you actually created like a “fun police” that could actually ensure this stuff doesn’t— PM : The alternative, of course, is a hospitality industry that isn’t able to operate at alert level 2, and I don’t think that’s what people would want. So, instead, what we have done is looked at “What is it that we’re trying to achieve?” We’re trying to achieve reducing contact between strangers. It’s very, very difficult for the hospitality environment, so we’ve come up with some principles to try and achieve that and allow those businesses to reopen, but safely. It does mean for some it won’t be workable, but keep in mind the intent is not to be at alert level 2 forever; the goal is to keep moving through. But, while we’re there, we do need to be cautious. Media : Could you just clarify: in the 100 person limit—is that for a single room? Or could, for example, a convention centre have 200 people if there was 100 people spaced out in one area and 100 in another. PM : Gatherings. So those groups of people cannot intermingle with each other. You can imagine what it would be like with a conference venue with multiple groups passing through each other, using similar spaces, similar entry and exit places, similar bathroom facilities, how difficult it would be if you had one person with COVID in that environment, to then contact trace those individuals. So that’s why those limits are put in place. Media : Prime Minister, can you really allow bars and cafes and restaurants to open when many of them do not have contactless payments? So what is the Government doing to ensure they all take contactless payments? PM : They’re not required to take contactless payments at alert level 2. You’ll see what we’re accommodating, even, of course, in hospitality, you do have interaction with your servers; they’re bringing you food, they’re bringing you coffee. So there is that level of contact. That’s why we’re asking for single servers—reducing it down to as few people in that environment as you can—to reduce the chances of having to expose large groups of people to lots of different strangers in one environment. Media : But isn’t having these terminals where many, many patrons will share their hands with that terminal and servers to push their buttons in and slide their cards in—isn’t that dangerous? PM : And that is why the guidelines are very clear for retail, for hospitality: whether it is an EFTPOS terminal, the door handle you go into a space in, or the door handle you use into a bathroom facility—all of what they call “high-contact surfaces”—must be cleaned regularly. An EFTPOS terminal is not the only issue that we need retail and hospitality to be very aware of. That’s the first point. The second point is this demonstrates why that transition needs to be cautious, needs to be well-thought-through, because level 2, if you’re going to open up those parts of the economy, does open up more risk. Media : Why don’t you act more urgently to regulate the payments sector so that the fear that many hospitality and dairy owners have about fees is removed and they can properly use payWave? PM : As I’ve just suggested, Bernard, an EFTPOS terminal is one of many high-contact surfaces. Unless you want us to regulate that no business can have a door handle as well, we wouldn’t solve that problem. It’s all about hygiene practices and we need every facility, whether you’re a school, whether you’re a retail operator, whether or not you’re a restaurant, to be extra mindful of all of the surfaces that people have contact with. Dr Bloomfield might want to talk about that a bit more, though. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think you’ve covered the key principles there, Prime Minister. So availability of hand gel so people can use them if they are using EFTPOS terminals and the cleaning is just paramount there, and that applies to any setting. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you please give us an update on the Marist cluster? And, also, is there any evidence that young people are infectious while not showing outward signs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can update you on is that over 500 people now have been tested so far this week from that Marist community, and thus far just the single positive test that I talked about yesterday. We know that there is increasing evidence about asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic transmission of the virus, and so that’s one of the things that, of course, has been trickier for countries in how to manage and respond to this virus. And that applies in the school setting as in any other setting. So saying, as the Prime Minister said, we are moving towards alert level 2 in exactly the position we wanted to be in. We came out of alert level 4 with low numbers of cases, and increasingly confident about no community transmission or ongoing unidentifiable transmission inside clusters, remembering this is a household contact. And this is the same now. All the cases we’ve seen this week—and we had the two days with no cases, and yesterday and today—are all linked to existing cases or clusters, which is exactly where we want to be. Media : Is there strong enough evidence about infectious versus asymptomatic to be able to go into, for example, a school setting? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The evidence continues to emerge. We’ve got a better understanding now of how the virus transmits. But the key thing here is—whether it’s school, workplace, any other setting, including what would be high risk settings like, arguably, cafes or restaurants, where there are strangers there—we are increasingly close to being in a position to go into alert level 2 because of the low numbers of cases we’ve had through efforts from the lockdown. Media : Prime Minister, the finance Minister this morning said that he expected deficits to blow out for an extended period and also New Zealand’s debt levels to increase over the foreseeable future as well. Could you give us some sort of indication about what those sorts of numbers are going to look like and if that’s appropriate? PM : No, I can’t give you those indications at this stage, but what I would say is that New Zealand isn’t in isolation here. The entire world is going to experience the prolonged economic pain of COVID-19. And I expect you’ll see that in other countries’ debt levels, and also you’ll see it in their economic plans for recovery, as you’ll see here in New Zealand. One of the unique positions, though, that we have that puts us in a better place than other parts of the world is we went hard and we went early. That will, therefore, I think, reap benefits for us in terms of opening the economy back up. Media : But is it worth it to take on that much extra debt and to see our deficits blow out? PM : Again, every decision that’s made in terms of spending for recovery or for rebuild is made with the very distinct goal of ensuring that we are creating jobs, that we’re supporting people through a very challenging economic period in our history. This is a one in 100 year event, and you will see us, though, apply the same rigor to our economic decision making that we always have, to make balanced decisions, to put people first. Media : What will the restrictions on the numbers of people mean in places like ski fields, for example? Will they be able to reopen? PM : In open air, obviously, golf courses, for instance, places where you have a large number of players, it’s obviously a different sets of circumstances. When we’re talking about those mass gatherings, it’s where you’ve got those congregations of individuals that we really need to be really mindful of the contact that people have with one another. Media : Prime Minister, you’ve mentioned in the past that when we move down alert levels you expect checkpoints, iwi-led checkpoints, community checkpoints, to close down. Is your expectation that when we get to level 2 all of those checkpoints will be closed immediately, or will you give some discretion to those local communities? PM : The principle here is that we wouldn’t be making a decision, and, indeed, we haven’t made one yet to move to alert level 2 unless we have the information from the Director-General and the experts to say that it’s safe. So the point of those checkpoints, I know, was to look after communities, and we won’t be introducing regional travel and an opening up of the economy unless we believe that it’s safe and it’s time to do so. Media : I have a question for Dr Bloomfield. You said, Dr Bloomfield, hongi will be an issue for iwi and we will provide guidance on that. Could you explain what you mean? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think the decision lies with individual iwi about hongi, but we’ll have our Māori team, led by John Whaanga, provide advice and in discussion and consultation with our Māori advisory group. Media : So the reason, Dr Bloomfield, you said specifically that hongi will be an issue for iwi, is that because hongi, you believe, has added risks for communities? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, rather, I think the decision about using hongi, because it’s such an important cultural practice, lies with iwi and it’s not one that—and we can give guidance about what the expectations are and the risks are at alert level 2, but I think iwi are very able, as they have shown to date, to make decisions around when hongi are appropriate or not. Media : Prime Minister, what will level 2 mean for hospitals in terms of visitor numbers and elective surgeries? PM : I’ll leave that to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So elective surgery is already, under alert level 3, winding up to get back to the highest level we can while keeping the environment safe, and acknowledging that there is a backlog of care that needs to be provided to people. As we move to alert level 2, we will have further guidance around visitor policies in hospitals, and it won’t be back to situation normal. It will be based on the same principles as every other setting about physical distancing, making sure that there is good hygiene, and so on. Media : A question on the PPE review. Three staff members from North Shore Hospital have told us that they’ve been discouraged from wearing masks by management, with two sources saying they’ve been told to remove masks as it may scare the patients, and another saying that they’re worried about asking for a mask because they fell they’ll be bullied for being overdramatic. Is that appropriate? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, of course, bullying’s not appropriate in any setting. That sounds like an issue specifically for that district health board to follow up. The PPE review that the Minister directed was specifically about the distribution of PPE from DHBs out to the range of community providers, and I can say—because I reviewed all the material that came in—it provided a reassuring picture and some areas that we will continue to work with DHBs on. Media : But stories like this that we keep hearing don’t provide a reassuring picture at all, do they? So there’s a flaw in the distribution flow. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, that’s not a distribution issue you’re talking about; that’s about the interactions between individual clinicians and leaders within the healthcare institution about appropriate use of PPE. What I am also very confident about is that DHBs are using the guidance, the national guidance, to make sure that staff have available the PPE to use in accordance with that guidance. Media : Prime Minister, are you confident in the enforcement of level 2’s rules, given that they’re much more relaxed? PM : Yes, and, as I’ve said, the Attorney-General is working through some final elements to support the enforcement at level 2. Media : Prime Minister, what would trigger a move backwards from level 2? PM : Outbreaks of cases. You’ve seen what it’s taken to get us down to where we are, but if we did have an outbreak, if we did see those cases ramping up, then we would have to be prepared to move again. No one wants that, which is why it’s about being vigilant, making sure that we’re balancing the opening of the economy, we’re not squandering the gains we’ve made. But you will see us make a balanced decision. That’s what we’ve done every time so far. Thanks everyone.
The daily COVID-19 media conference started at 1pm. Speakers: Grant Robertson, Minister of Finance Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health Watch the media conference.
The daily COVID-19 media conference started at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health. Watch the media conference. Media conference will start at 3pm. Speakers: Sarah Stuart-Black, Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management Andrew Coster, Police Commissioner Watch the media conference.
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 23 April --- Section Separator --- Hon Kris Faafoi : Right, good afternoon, everyone. Today, I’m announcing the first of two media sector support packages to help media affected by COVID-19. Today’s support package is a first step to provide immediate and urgent help for the media sector. It’s well known that New Zealand’s media sector has been facing challenges well before COVID-19, but the disruption from COVID has compounded the difficulties, with significant losses of advertising. Without Government intervention, we risk losing the skills and range of perspectives which provide important independent news and information that New Zealanders rely on, especially at times like these, so we’ve developed an immediate support package in consultation with the media sector. The first package focuses on initiatives that can provide immediate or near-term assistance. It’s aimed at helping media in print, online, and broadcast channels at national, regional, and local community levels. The initiatives in the first package are reducing the costs payable by media organisations for transmission and New Zealand On Air - funded content by funding 100 percent of Kordia and other television and FM transmission fees for six months, 100 percent of the AM transmission fees for six months, an 80 percent reduction in media organisations’ New Zealand On Air contribution fees for the 2020-21 financial year. The Government will also be purchasing central government news media subscriptions in advance for the 2020-21 financial year, and encouraging Government-funded agencies to increase their uptake of news media subscriptions. There’s also the delegated authority for me and the Minister of Finance to approve targeted assistance on the advice of officials to ensure the support fits the different needs of the various media organisations that request it. And we also state a commitment to build on the Local Democracy Reporting project which has been trialled in the regions around the country over the past 12 months, funding journalists to focus on reporting about publicly appointed elected officials or organisations such as local councils, committee boards, and DHBs. We see the further development of this work as part of a second longer-term strategy which will provide further support to retain journalists; regional and national news and current affairs coverage, including local news; maintain media plurality; and make sure regulation is suitable. Further announcements on the longer-term strategies will be made in due course. We will work with media entities to make sure that whatever access they have to both these short-term measures and longer-term assistance is on the basis of their needs and future viability. The direct cost of this package is $50 million. Māori Television, Te Māngai Pāho, and the National Pacific Radio Trust have also been involved in helping shape the initiatives in this package. As they’re primarily Crown funded, they are not impacted to the same extent as commercially funded media. However, they could see benefits in the waiving of transmission costs, and Māori Television could see savings from New Zealand On Air contributions. Officials are finalising the details of how media can access the support package. The intent is to make this as swift as possible. This morning, I spoke to a number of media chief executives to give them a heads up on this package. They were thankful but, like me, understand that this package alone will not ensure the sustainability of the sector. We will need to continue to work with them to design the second phase and, importantly, move swiftly if conditions change. Finally, I’d like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of the media in keeping New Zealanders up to date with the news and important information during this time of crisis. It has certainly been appreciated by the public. I’m happy to take any questions. Media : Where’s the commitment that the Government will prioritise advertising on local media rather than on Google and Facebook? Hon Kris Faafoi : That is certainly going to be part, Tova, of the second tranche of work that we’re looking at. This first package is aimed at immediate cash-flow assistance for media companies, so that is why that’s made up of the transmission fees, and some of those direct conversations we’ll have with media organisations. Certainly, those conversations are being had about the second tranche of work, and already our Treasury has been in touch with our counterparts across the Tasman to work in tandem with them. Media : Can you make a commitment that that will be coming, because that was one of the things that, across the board, media bosses were— Hon Kris Faafoi : I can make a commitment that that’s certainly going to be one of the important discussions as part of the second package. Media : And the $11.1 million discretionary fund, will State broadcasters be able to access that as well? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes, they will, because I think most of the conversations around that will be about bringing forward Government advertising spending. Only one entity could do that in a large way. The issue with that is that, in our conversations directly with the media companies, they are all in different positions and we wanted to make sure that, while we might be able to assist with cash flow, we also wanted to make sure that there was prudent spending of taxpayer money. Media : Have you had any indication from media bosses about how many jobs this will save? Hon Kris Faafoi : No, I haven’t. They were very short phone calls this morning that I had. I want to stress that this is the first package, and this alone will not be able to cure all the problems that the media sector has. I think some of the long-term solutions will certainly be part of the discussions and, of course, some of the commitment that the Government will make towards the second package. Media : Minister, there doesn’t appear to be a lot in here for print, but particularly Stuff. Are they on their own, or do you expect them to make— Hon Kris Faafoi : No, they’re not. As I say, I have spoken to a number of chief executives. I will be having bespoke conversations with those entities about how they might be able to access some of that more flexible funding. And, again, it depends on the nature of the entity, as are those discussions that they’ll be having with officials to figure out how that can be of assistance to them. Media : Would you not agree, though, that the package is very weighted in favour of broadcasting? And can you explain how it’s going to help print and digital? Hon Kris Faafoi : Well, I think that’s because of the nature of the cost and immediacy that we want. It’s expensive for transmission costs for the likes of broadcasters, and it is immediate relief that we’re trying to get through. The flexibility that we have within that $11.1 million of funding will allow us to have some of those bespoke conversations with specific entities to make sure that, if we can assist them with initiatives like bringing Government advertising forward, we might be able to advance that. Media : So do you not believe, then, that there’s a need for urgency to help out print and digital entities? Hon Kris Faafoi : There’s an urgency to help out everyone. The nature of the funding envelope is weighted purely because of the nature of the cost of some of the media platforms. In this case, being transmission, it’s six months’ worth of television, FM, and AM frequency fees, which, off the top of my head, is roughly $20 million. That’s the cost of transmission fees. Media : Hundreds of our print colleagues have lost their jobs already during the COVID crisis. So where is the additional support, the triaging for the print industry? Hon Kris Faafoi : So, as I said, this is a first package of two media support packages. There are some fundamental issues about the structure and nature of the media sector, which were present before COVID, that we want to make sure are addressed when we take a look at the second support package. This isn’t about making sure we prop up failing businesses; it’s about making sure that we can support the important function of journalism in New Zealand. And I think that’s what we need to make sure that we are focusing on, in terms of the second package as well. Media : Is that a suggestion that the Government would get behind the Stuff/ME merger, for example? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not going to go into any of those hypotheticals at the moment. We’ve had discussions with nearly—with every media entity. I want to tell you they’re working very hard behind the scenes to try and make this work, but those discussions have been commercially sensitive. So a lot of the answers of the type that I’ll be giving today might not necessarily be helpful, but if we need to take policy action, I’m going to have to keep a lot of the information that has been given to me—commercially sensitive—to myself. Media : That online advertising, though—it would provide immediate relief, which is what you’re saying. So why isn’t it in this first package? Why are we having to wait for the second package? Hon Kris Faafoi : Because it takes time to effect those changes. We’re having discussions with some of those platforms very soon. That is not something that can be turned around fast. We were getting pressure to make sure we did something in the short term to have an immediate adrenalin hit for the sector. This is what this is, while we make sure we continue to work on the second package, which will look at issues like competition and like issues around online advertising. Media : Are you willing to let some of those large legacy media companies fail and lose hundreds of jobs? Hon Kris Faafoi : Look, at the end of the day, some of those decisions aren’t in our hands. We’ve spoken to some of the owners of media entities but not all, and so some of those decisions won’t necessarily be made by us, but some of the principles that are driving actions in the short and the long term are media plurality, making sure that we support the function of journalism, and making sure we can retain as many jobs as we possibly can. Media : So you accept that some of the [ Inaudible ] will fail? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not going to be talking about that openly, Thomas, because some of that might draw on information that I have been given on a commercially sensitive basis. Media : What is the state of TVNZ’s finances right now? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not going to go into that—again, because that’s commercially sensitive information. Media : Stuff is the largest employer of journalists in the country and also has the largest number of local newsrooms, yet it receives the least from this package. Can you explain your thinking on that? Hon Kris Faafoi : I guess, again, a lot of that comes down, if you’re going to put it in the context of the overall envelope, Andrea—is transmission costs are high. There’s also a conversation that I’ve had with all the chief executives today that there is the ability through that $11.1 million appropriation within the $50 million to have bespoke conversations with every entity about what support might look like for them. So I can’t give you exactly what the support out of that might look like for Stuff, but I’m aware of the nature of it and the importance of it in the media environment, and we’re continuing to have discussions with them. Media : Did you look at the Australian model, where they’re requiring entities like Facebook to share revenue with the media companies? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes, we are going to be looking at that, and that discussion is going to be part of the second package. And as I said at the outset, Treasury officials have been in contact with their relevant counterparts across the Tasman to make sure that we can work with them. Media : Are you drawing a line saying there will be no bail-outs for media companies, even if they are on the brink of collapse? Hon Kris Faafoi : Our principles are making sure that we support media plurality, making sure that we support the function of journalism, and making sure that we support as many jobs as possible. As well as this media support package, most media entities, if they are able to, have accessed initiatives like the wage subsidy, etc. So we’re trying to do as much as we can in the short term to give us some time to have some of the wider discussions that were plaguing the media sector before COVID happened, and I think if we’re all honest with each other, some of those discussions need to be had. [ Interruption ] Media : Sorry, can I just finish that line of questioning. Following on from Thomas’ questioning, you are willing to let media organisations fail? Hon Kris Faafoi : We’ll deal with everything on a case-by-case basis as it comes to us, but our principles are making sure we support plurality, jobs, and the function of journalism. We could stay here for hours and throw out every hypothetical about what might happen; a lot of those hypotheticals I won’t answer because they are hypotheticals and I would be answering on the basis of commercially sensitive information that has been given to me. I have to work in good faith with some of the chief executives of this company in order for us to make sure we’ve got a long-term and sustainable media. Media : Thank you. In terms of subscriptions, I note that $1.3 million has been allocated for the 2020-2021 financial year. Just by way of context, how much was spent in the 2019-2020 year? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not sure about that, Jenèe; I’ll have to come back with that information. Media : So is that $1.3 an increase, or is it, basically, just the same as what’s already been [ Inaudible ]? Hon Kris Faafoi : I don’t know the base figure—I would hope it’s an increase. But the feedback that we had from operators of smaller subscription services was that the Government wasn’t pulling its weight to make sure—Government departments weren’t pulling its weight to make sure that it paid for its fair share of usage of their media. Media : Minister, you touched on it briefly, but could you detail the impact this will have on Māori media? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, look, in a technical sense, obviously, they have audio transmission costs as well, and may to some degree have New Zealand On Air costs that they would have when they get funded for New Zealand On Air. Just like every other media entity, they will be able to access that relief, as well as some of the work that Minister Mahuta was doing with the Māori media sector shift before COVID. Being part of the conversations that are had around the second package around the look of a long-term, sustainable model for media—Māori media will, obviously, have to be pretty central to that. Media : The subscription fund—is that ring-fenced for actual subscriptions, or, you know, all of New Zealand media now? I think print media—sorry, and digital media—operate some sort of subscription—sorry, donation model. Will you be allowing that to be used for donations as well? Hon Kris Faafoi : My understanding is it’s more for the smaller type of subscription services. Media : And the $11 million fund—what is that for? Is that a media boss picks up the phone and says, “We’re in trouble.”? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, look, as I say, every conversation that we have with media entities has a certain similarity to it, but they’re all in different financial positions. Initiatives like bringing forward Government advertising spend could come out of that, and certainly that was the tone of some of the conversations I had with some of the managers and chief executives that I’ve had today. Again, we want to make sure that we’re being able to assist cash flow for some of those entities if that’s the position they’re in, but also, around viability of an entity, we need to make sure that that money is spent prudently. So they will have to speak with Treasury and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage officials to make sure that we get that right. Media : How long do you think it will last for? Pretty fast, looking at how much— Hon Kris Faafoi : It depends on what the particular needs are. You know, again, we’ve designed this package in consultation with media companies, and some have given us an idea of how much Government spending on advertising they’ve had in the previous 12 months. And that’s helped us get to some figures to have available for this, again, first and short-term support package. Media : How likely is it, do you think, that going forward in the next couple of years we’re going to see a smaller media market in New Zealand? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not sure if you can guarantee smaller, but I think you can guarantee— Media : Less companies? Hon Kris Faafoi : No, I think we can guarantee it’s different. That all depends on how particular media companies might want to change their business models. But, again, I think there’s a natural level of function of journalism that our Government wants to see to make sure we’ve got local journalism, national journalism, investigative journalism that most companies that are in the media now, to be fair to say, are struggling to provide. So if there’s some way that we can do that through beefing up what is the local democracy reporting model at the moment—and, as I said, it’s very early stages; it’s only a 12-month pilot run last year, but bringing that to a head and seriously investing in that is one of the things that we’re looking to commit to as part of the second media support package. Media : Can you give any further examples of bespoke solutions aside from the Government [ Inaudible ]? Hon Kris Faafoi : Oh, look, there are plenty. Again, I might be giving away some details that particular companies might be in, but I’ve chosen that one because that came through as a [ Inaudible ] through almost all companies that have had Government spending. Media : Minister, there’s an enduring perception that the Government’s quite happy to bolster TVNZ and RNZ and let the rest of the sector take its chances. What’s your response to that? Hon Kris Faafoi : I think it’s wrong. Certainly, pre-COVID we had a look at the challenges that the media sector had and we saw it as our responsibility to make sure that public broadcasting continued to be strong, given the challenges that the competitive market, or the open market, was having. COVID has obviously changed that because the advertising revenue challenges that most commercial media players had pre-COVID are obviously a lot sharper as we go through COVID. That is why we are here now with a $50 million package in the short term to give the media sector an adrenalin hit to make sure that we have the time and the ability to have to have the wider conversations with the sector as a whole to see how we can make the media sector more sustainable. Media : Can you please explain why you’re cutting and subsidising RNZ’s transmission fees, when, effectively, the Government’s paying those anyway, aren’t they, via RNZ? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes—to a degree—I’m not sure how much that is within the overall package of transmission fees, but there is a degree of money go-round there, but they are, again, another transmission company that might pay fees to Kordia or themselves. So I’m sure Treasury will sort that out. Media : What’s the point in that when RNZ hasn’t lost any funding during COVID? Hon Kris Faafoi : Well, it’s not about, necessarily, losing the funding; the parameters of that is if you pay a transmission fee, you don’t have to pay for it for the next six months. Media : [ Inaudible ] the Government’s paying it, anyway, for RNZ. Hon Kris Faafoi : And I’m sure Treasury will sort that out. My understanding is that it’s a minimal amount of money. Media : The advertising spend isn’t necessarily new money; it’s just bringing it forward—it’s more of a cash-flow measure rather than a bolstering measure. Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes. That’s correct. Media : Is there any sense that you might want to, you know, boost the level of advertising— Hon Kris Faafoi : That was one of the things that was talked about in some of the consultation that MCH did with media companies in the lead-up to this package. And I think it’s one of the issues that we’ll look at for the second tranche. Media : What was the mood of those media execs this morning? Hon Kris Faafoi : It’s a challenge. And, you know, we spoke to them possibly about a week and a half, two weeks, ago, as we were putting the package together, and for some, things had moved on significantly. I think, as I say, while they welcome the package, they know that there’s more work to do to make sure that they can have a sustainable future. And I think, as, you know, no one is not susceptible to the challenges, as in every sector, but, you know, they’re trying their hardest to make sure that they can keep their businesses sustainable and people in jobs. Media : Is the RNZ/TVNZ merger still part of your thinking as part of that second tranche? Hon Kris Faafoi : Let’s say that’s on ice. We’ve asked PricewaterhouseCoopers who are doing the business case for that to continue that work. They’re going to deliver it in July, I understand. While it’s on ice, it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s dead; I just think there are wider issues for us to contend with at the moment with the wider sector. But, again, I think making sure that we have a strong public media is extremely important. But that decision, which was at the forefront of our minds pre-COVID is not necessarily right in front of us right now. Media : Can you please tell us how much more the Government has spent over the last year on advertising on the likes of Google and Facebook and social media versus local media, and how much that’s increased, perhaps, over a five-year period? Hon Kris Faafoi : The advice that I’ve given is that the Government has spent—and it might not be total but I think it’s pretty close—is about $110 million for the year ’18-’19, I believe, is the figures that I’ve been given. And about 30 percent of that was to online platforms. The rest of it was television, radio, print, [ Inaudible ], etc. Again, we’re digging into those numbers as we get into the second tranche, because we need to answer the question about how much of an affect precisely is Google and Facebook having not just with Government advertising spend, but across the board, to make sure that we’re informed when we look at the issues such as what the Australians are doing at the moment. Media : When will we expect that second tranche, though? As you say, for media companies, this is moving really quickly at the moment— Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, I can’t give you an exact date on that, but we are aware of the urgency. Media : Weeks or months? Budget? Hon Kris Faafoi : I would say weeks—please don’t hold me to that. But, again, we’re aware of the urgency. Media : So is that roughly $33 million a year goes to Google and Facebook and advertisers— Hon Kris Faafoi : Of 110? I think it was about 110. So I think it was about 30 percent, or something like that. I can get you the figures, but, again, I don’t think it was precise, but I think it’s pretty much in the ball park for Government advertising spend. Media : So you’re spending more than half on advertising on Google and Facebook than you are on the media support package? Hon Kris Faafoi : Pardon? Media : You’re spending more than half the amount on advertising on Google and Facebook media than you are on the media support package. Hon Kris Faafoi : And I would stress that this is the first tranche of two media support packages. Media : And with the second tranche—will the budget be roughly the same, or will there be more, or is it more of a kind of a structural thing? Hon Kris Faafoi : I would like to be more ambitious. I think, you know, we see this as an adrenalin shot for short-term support, and, you know, while we are yet to have the conversation with the powers that be, I think if we’re dealing with structural issues with the media, then I think we have to think seriously about—if we look at upgrading the local democracy reporting scheme—being serious about it. Media : Minister, what’s been the cost of the new information thing on Facebook that pops up at the top that the Government has done—sort of official COVID information? Hon Kris Faafoi : I don’t know the answer to that question; I can get that for you. Media : This media package was expected last week. What happened—why the delay? Hon Kris Faafoi : I wouldn’t necessarily call it a delay; I think I said in the select committee last Wednesday that it’d take about a week. We got it through our committee yesterday, and I’m here on Thursday announcing it. Media : Outside of the $11.1 million which hasn’t been signed yet, how much money is specifically going to go to Stuff, which is the country’s largest employer of journalists? Hon Kris Faafoi : Well, we can’t answer that yet. Again, those bespoke conversations have to be had with that particular entity, and other entities, to give both Treasury officials and the Minister of Finance and me some assurance that it’s appropriate. Media : Is there an option to extend the amount of time that those transmission fees would be cut? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, there is. So we’ve said six months. As I said to chief executives this morning, my crystal ball isn’t that flash, but we’ll keep an eye on the situation for, you know, the next three, four, or five months about that particular initiative when the time comes. Media : Could that form part of a more long-term measure to keep the industry going? Hon Kris Faafoi : I think at this stage the Minister of Finance might not necessarily be happy if I committed to that, but it’s certainly something that we’re OK to look at in, you know, four or five months’ time. Media : Could I ask you a personal question—I know you’ve been a Minister for a while and an MP for a long time, but you were also a journalist once—how bizarre is this, or how hard has it been for you to hear about the concerns of the industry and [ Inaudible ] this support package? Hon Kris Faafoi : They say once a journalist, always a journalist. And I might get myself in trouble with my current colleagues about that. But I fundamentally believe in the function of journalism in New Zealand. We might not like getting harassed, standing here, all the time, but it’s an important part of the democratic process, and we see that and we understand that and we need to be held to account. And, to a degree, we think there has been a bit of market failure in the last couple of years, which is why we saw it fit to bolster public media. COVID came along and has changed a lot of things. But, you know, I’m not going to talk about jobs, but I think the function of journalism in this country is extremely important. We’re a small country, and even though, I think, we might think we’re doing a great job, being asked questions about what we’re doing is extremely important. Media : You probably wouldn’t call questioning harassing, though. Hon Kris Faafoi : It depends on which side of the podium you’re on. Thanks everyone. PM : Kia ora koutou katoa. It’s day 29 of COVID-19 alert level 4. We’ll start, as per usual, with Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. So today we have two new confirmed cases and one new probable case of COVID-19 to report. However, there is actually no change in the total number of COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, which remains at 1,451—the same as yesterday. Let me briefly explain. There were three cases we reported yesterday who were confirmed cases off the Greg Mortimer ship, where people had been repatriated from Uruguay. However, we understand that their original testing was done in Uruguay, and we are checking with the authorities there as to whether they have already reported them to the WHO, to make sure that the World Health Organization totals are accurate. So, to report—again, just to reiterate—two new confirmed and one new probable case. Our laboratories processed a record 6,480 tests yesterday, so if you look at the new confirmed cases, less than 0.05 percent were positive, and we’ve now processed 101,277 tests for COVID-19. All the cases we’re reporting today are linked to existing cases. Sadly, today, I have two further deaths to report as a result of COVID-19 infection. A patient has died who has been very unwell in intensive care in Dunedin Hospital with COVID-19 since 7 April. She was in her 60s and had an underlying health condition. While her family have not been able to visit her over the past few weeks, arrangements were made for them to be with her last night as she passed away. The second death is a resident at Rosewood Rest Home in Christchurch. This man, in his 70s, passed away in the hospital-level wing of that unit last night. He was not part of the group that had been transferred to Burwood Hospital. The man had an underlying condition, and while he had tested negative for COVID-19, he was considered a probable case based on his exposure and symptoms. And, as I have said before, these probable cases are treated as if they are positive, and managed in the same way, and we are including them in all our statistics—including our mortality statistics. Our sympathies go out to the families of both of these people, and, once again, we are reminded of the serious threat that this infection poses to individuals and our communities. Today, there are eight people in hospital with COVID-19, and one person is in ICU in Middlemore Hospital. There are still the same 16 significant clusters, and four additional cases have now been linked to those clusters. Some brief comments on health services under level 3, in advance of heading into that alert level. So hospitals remain open for emergency and acute care, of course, and I encourage all people to seek acute care for whatever their condition, through either Healthline or their GP or at the hospital. Some elective services, including surgery and radiology, will be provided under alert level 3, and more detail will follow on that. In aged residential care, only family visits for palliative and compassionate care reasons will be considered, and that will be on a case-by-case basis. General practices of course will be open, as they have been through alert level 4, and they will be continuing to conduct virtual consultations as much as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or respiratory symptoms, please seek help through Healthline or by calling ahead to your regular doctor. Community pharmacies remain open, dental services may provide urgent face-to-face appointments under alert level 3 but not routine dental care. Community midwives will continue to do the fantastic work they do with pregnant women out in the community, using virtual means where possible but also face to face. There will be an allowance for some face-to-face services for physiotherapy, podiatry, and optometry, and so on, where urgent care is required, but they will continue to provide services as much as possible virtually. And, finally, community mental health service appointments will continue to be done by virtual means, or by phone where possible; face-to-face appointments if necessary. And you’ll have seen the Minister of Health just announce that he’s asked me to do a quick stocktake around all our district health boards on the processes they are using to distribute PPE to our providers based in the community, so we can get an idea of what PPE is going out, how quickly they are responding to orders, and how any concerns are dealt with. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Later today, the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management, Sarah Stuart-Black, will give an update on what our civil defence groups across the country have been doing to support vulnerable New Zealanders. She’ll also be joined by Police Commissioner Andy Coster for a briefing. The work that’s been done by our civil defence group may be going unnoticed to the vast majority of New Zealanders while everyone is in their bubbles, but it is work that keeps people who would otherwise be without fed, warm, and well. We have been working hard to ensure that we’re meeting need where it exists, which is why yesterday we put another $30 million into our civil defence groups—so they can keep providing food parcels, household goods, and accommodation where it’s required—and that follows the immediate assistance you’ll remember some time ago of $27 million put in to support that work. And so, on the ground, 16 local civil defence groups are doing what they do best. They’re coordinating across all Government agencies, organisations including NGOs, iwi, and community-based groups. While COVID-19 may seem like a different kind of emergency to what we’ve dealt with in recent years, like floods and fires, the role of civil defence is very much the same: ensuring communities, individuals, families, and whānau have the support they need. There is an 0800 number for every group that people can call if they are out of supplies or struggling to get basic food. They’ve been providing emergency accommodation, a stop-gap service before they are referred to MBIE’s temporary accommodation service. This is business as usual for them, but they also now have powers activated by the state of national emergency in support of the COVID-19 response, as you’re all well aware. So far, that’s been used for things like closing roads to prevent vehicle access to back country to stop activities that might result in rescue activity. In Taranaki, they have moved on freedom campers. In Canterbury, they have requisitioned a car park for use as a community-based assessment centre. Coordination is a role not to be underestimated. It’s what helps get what is required to those who need it most, and I do want to pass on my thanks to the amazing work that’s being done by those civil defence groups in our local areas. A short word on hunting. While food parcels keep families fed, we know that in many parts of New Zealand, hunting is also a part of providing for many people’s families and whānau. You would have seen that decisions have now been made for this activity in alert level 3. Hunting can go ahead under alert level 3, so long as you stay in your region, so long as you stay in your bubble, and we’re asking that people please don’t put themselves at risk of needing rescue. So that means don’t use quad bikes, off-road motorbikes, or any motorised vehicles for the purposes of hunting. DOC land is closed for tramping and other activities, and also for hunting, at level 3. On private land, you’ll, of course, need landowners’ permission. Hunting is an important part of life for many New Zealanders. In many places around the country, it fills freezers for the months ahead. It also rids farmland of pests. These restrictions allow for it to happen safely and in a way that minimises the risk of losing the great progress that we’ve made and also is in keeping with the principles that we’ve set out for alert level 3 around travel, around bubbles, and around activity. We’ve also had discussions with Fish & Game about the duck hunting season. As many of you will know, the season is gazetted in advance and was due to begin on 2 May. Cabinet was concerned that under the level 3 guidelines for hunting, some people would be excluded from the season, perhaps in part because they lived at too great a distance to where they may need to be. There was also concern that if it started soon and people weren’t able to take part, it would end up being a shorter season for some people. For that reason, the duck hunting season will go ahead in the second weekend after New Zealand moves to alert level 2. The season, once it gets under way, will be extended to make up for the delay. I know this will be disappointing for many, But we recognise that opening weekend is quite a social event for many people, and we still must reduce down contact at level 3 as much as possible. This decision means all those who usually take part in duck hunting will be able to, just on a slightly different time frame than otherwise. I also want to be clear that hunting will be able to resume normally at level 2 once we get there. Just, today is not that day. On Saturday, Anzac Day, I will be one of many New Zealanders who will take part in an initiative called “Stand At Dawn”. The RSA has encouraged all of us to commemorate our service personnel by standing at the end of our driveways or near our letterboxes at 6 a.m.—to stand at dawn. I know how hard it will be this year, our first Anzac Day in history where services have been cancelled due to COVID-19, but that doesn’t mean we can’t show our support as a collective. As dawn breaks, we can stand at the end of those driveways, and together and silent, and pay tribute to those we should never forget. We can still take time to pause, reflect, and pay our respects to the people who have given so much to us. This year, we are calling for all Kiwis worldwide to stand at their letterbox, their front door, their balcony, or their essential place of work at 6 a.m. on 25 April. The official dawn service broadcast will be on RNZ National radio at 6 a.m. and will include an address by the Minister of Defence and Minister for Veterans, Ron Mark. If anyone wants to find out more details, I encourage you to visit standatdawn.com. And so, in the spirit of recognising those who have been a part of our COVID-19 response, today I want to thank the New Zealand Defence Force past, present, and future, for all that you do to keep peace, to keep us safe, to help us recover from natural disasters, to help our Pacific neighbours, to reflect our strength of spirit across the world, and more recently for your work on COVID-19. Some 60 expert planners and logistics personnel have helped with central government operations, such as health and police centres, as well as regional emergency operations centres. More than 600 have helped to manage isolation facilities and distribute care packages to those in need. This comes alongside usual work such as search and rescue, and disaster relief. I’d like to make special mention of the crews from 5 Squadron and 40 Squadron of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, who have also been flying relief flights in support of our Pacific neighbours in Vanuatu, Fiji, and Tonga, who have been hard hit by tropical cyclone Harold. We, as always, are grateful for your service. Thank you. I’m now happy to take your questions. Media : How many people have recovered? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The number of people who have recovered has increased by 29, and it is now 1,065. Media : Have you been in touch with that family connected to the Dunedin fatality? They were on radio this morning saying that they’d been given false hope from these press conferences by saying that the person was stable. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. So I haven’t personally, but I know the medical officer of health has and we, through our comms team, cleared the statement I have made today with the family. So, yes, prior to yesterday, the information I had was that the person who has subsequently died was in critical condition, and yesterday it said “stable”, which reflected the fact there had been no change. But I am very sorry because I think, from that story, that did create some anxiety and concern for the family. So I’m sorry that that happened, and I am certainly happy to be in touch with them personally if they would like to. PM : We’ve also talked about, in future, maybe distinctions that talk about people being in ICU without necessarily the breakdown of their status within ICU, because, in this case, perhaps the health terminology will mean different things to different people. No one wants to create any kind of extra additional distress for families, as obviously has been caused in this case. Media : Can you clarify the case-by-case basis on which family members will be able to visit their loved ones in hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry, do you mean under current— Media : Under level 3. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Under level 3, yes, there is some new guidance going up on our website around this, and so that will be at the discretion of the senior clinician if a person does have COVID-19, and there will be provision if the clinician feels it’s safe—there will be provision for a family member to visit, and PPE will be provided and its use will be instructed so that will keep the family member safe. Media : So there are no changes under level 4? Is that right? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry? Media : There are no changes in that regard? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No changes under level 4. That’s an intention under level 3. Media : You were speaking before about under level 3, if someone is in palliative care or end-of-life care, allowing visitors. The website says that visitors from the extended bubble with no suspicion of COVID-19 will be allowed one at a time, but that doesn’t specify that that’s just for palliative care. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : You mean—that was in aged residential care facilities that I was talking about? The arrangement in aged residential care is still no visiting, except in the circumstances of where it’s a palliative situation, and then compassionate visiting will be organised through the facility manager. Media : What about in hospitals—people will be able to visit? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The visiting policy is different in hospitals. For people without COVID-19, anyway, there is an ability under alert level 3 for individual family members to visit. Media : On that Burwood group, are you able to give us an update of how many remain either confirmed or probable cases and what their conditions are? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have that information but I will seek out that information and we can make that available. PM : Certainly, it is the case, isn’t it, Dr Bloomfield, that there are, obviously, a number around Rosewood who have been identified as having contracted COVID-19, and, you know, devastatingly, of course, you’re seeing then the impact of that on a vulnerable community. And so when we saw those initial deaths, it’s, obviously, indicative of the fact that when it reaches those vulnerable communities, it is devastating. But there were a number who were positive. Media : Is it still the case, though, that, I guess—we spoke a couple of weeks back with you and you said it is possible that we’ll see more deaths. Is it still quite a—or have we passed the worst of it with this group of people, or is it still a really big concern? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, if you think about the unit in which the infection happened and the people who were transferred to Burwood, these are people with quite advanced underlying conditions anyway, and so we have seen further deaths, as I alluded to might happen, and there may well be others. As with the death today, even when there isn’t a positive test, as there was in this case, we are being inclusive to make sure we are capturing any death that could be COVID-19 - related. But this is the group that is the most vulnerable and tends to have the worst outcomes from this infection. Media : How common is it that we get these negative tests? We haven’t, kind of, heard about that too much before. PM : We talked a little bit in the beginning about it. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I think right from the start we’ve talked about the fact, and that’s one of the reasons that we are thoughtful about when we’re using testing, because a negative test in—for example, you know, sometimes we’ve seen cases that are still classified as probable even though they may have had repeated negative swabs. And that doesn’t reflect a problem with the testing; it, I think, underscores our inclusive approach for making sure we are capturing and treating any probable cases as if they were a case, and acting accordingly. Media : Prime Minister, you mentioned yesterday that provided that they collaborate with police and operate appropriately, that these largely iwi-based checkpoints—that you’re OK with them. When we move to level 3, will you still be comfortable with these checkpoints operating? PM : Yeah, to the degree that they are working with civil defence and police, because, keeping in mind, it is only the police and civil defence who are lawfully able to stop people. And so I’m comfortable with the message I’ve received from the police that they’re working well with communities on the ground where some of these checkpoints have existed to make sure that they are operating within the law and with the best interests of the community at heart. Media : And to you, Dr Bloomfield, people have approached us—people in the Māori community have approached us—asking why there isn’t data on ethnicity testing by region. Why is that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We just haven’t done the analysis, but we can provide that. We’ve provided an updated analysis in the last few days by ethnicity and by region, and we can go further and do the breakdown by region—acknowledging that in some of the regions, the numbers are relatively small, so there will be maybe small numbers in some of those groups. But yes, we’re happy to do that. Media : So, continuing on with that then, and publishing those and making those publicly available—that is in the works, then, and if so, when might that happen? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It can be done, because when we publish those laboratory data, we are linking them to the NHI number. Now, we don’t get a 100 percent match, but we get a 96 percent match, and then the NHI carries information about age, ethnicity, and so on. And the ethnicity is prioritised, so it has Māori prioritised. So we can do that. I’ll talk to the team when I get back there today. Media : Prime Minister, should New Zealanders be able to get a refund from Air New Zealand rather than just credit for cancelled flights—particularly those who are now in hardship? PM : That’s not something I’ve had raised with me, so a bit difficult for me to make a statement off the cuff. I’m sure Air New Zealand have been doing some work around, you know, what is fair under these current circumstances. If you wouldn’t mind, I wouldn’t mind taking a look at the issue before just giving you a response. Media : Do you think it would be fair for Air New Zealand to tell people they’re not entitled to a refund or a credit because their flight is still departing? PM : Sorry, is it reasonable for them to say that they’ve—I mean, look, it’s obvious to people that many of the flights in question are not still departing. Media : But if they are still departing—Air New Zealand has in some cases said no refund, no credit, they could be still going. PM : Yeah, again, I would want to just go and look at some of the circumstances under which this is being applied. We are asking people, though, to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I know that there will be many people who will have trips booked that just aren’t possible to undertake now. So if you would allow me just go and have a look at some of the policies that have been released on that front. Media : We’re getting reports of elderly people who are spending unnecessarily long amounts of time in hospital because hospitals won’t test for asymptomatic patients but the rest homes won’t allow them to return until they’ve had the test. So can you clear that up and give some clarity on what the situation is? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, and I spoke to this at some length yesterday. So we’ve had, and are having, ongoing discussions with the Aged Care Association. What we agree on and what happens is any older person who’s going into residential care, or is returning because they’ve been in hospital, who is symptomatic—and there’s a low threshold for testing—is tested, and anyone who is positive does not go back until they have recovered and have clinically been determined to have recovered. But every resident going in or returning goes into 14 days of self-isolation and is tested if they develop symptoms. And the whole point of that 14-day period is that if they did have COVID-19 and had been exposed—I should say, if there is any history of exposure, they are also tested, symptomatic or not. However, the advice of a range of professionals, including, you may have seen yesterday, the New Zealand Microbiology Network, is that routine testing is not helpful because it is a point in time in asymptomatic people. And this goes to the point I made earlier on that, actually, even when we think someone is a probable case with a clear history of exposure, the test can still be negative, so we do not think routine testing is indicated. Media : Germany is making face masks compulsory in public, and Auckland Transport’s asking passengers, under level 3, to wear them on buses and trains. Where is the consideration at for whether New Zealand will see these sorts of measures under alert level 3 and 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So, at this point, we are not recommending people use face masks routinely. We don’t think it is an important part of our overall measures. The most important parts are the physical distancing and hygiene and other safety measures, and, of course, maintaining the bubbles—that’s the really critical thing. This morning, actually, quite early, myself and colleagues were on a call with our British counterparts to share experiences, and this was one of the issues raised. Like us, they are carefully watching the evidence, and, as their chief medical officer has said, you can find very high-level specialists on both sides of the argument. So, again, I think if people want to wear a mask, they should—they should know how to use it—but we don’t think at this point there is any indication for routine use of masks in public. PM : What I do just want to urge is that it is no substitute for social distancing, so when it comes to public transport, we will still ask people to try and keep their distance, keep seats free, sit further back from other people if they’re able—all of those basic measures we’re asking people to maintain all the way through these alert levels. Media : On the masks, isn’t it wise that we err on the side of caution while evidence is still being evaluated? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At this point, again, we don’t think that that’s the important thing; the important thing is where we have emphasised our key messages—and those have served us well to date and will continue to. If people want to use a mask, they can, but they should know how to use it, recalling again that there are disadvantages of using masks as well as possible advantages. PM : Dr Bloomfield, would you mind expanding on the correct use and disadvantages of use as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the correct use depends on the type of mask, but it is very important that you put it on and keep your hands away from your nose and mouth, and they usually hook behind the ears. The challenge then, and as we have all found, is we tend to unconsciously put our hands up to our face, and often if you’re not used to wearing a mask—for example, you don’t spend day after day in an operating theatre—the tendency is to then keep putting your hands to your face. And when the mask is wet, including as we have seen recently down in Burwood—when the mask is wet, then it can transmit viruses, including COVID-19. So the key point here is meticulous hand hygiene and, of course, most importantly, not going out if you’re unwell. Media : Dr Bloomfield, some private hospitals have raised concerns that they’re not being reimbursed for staying open at full capacity during level 4 lockdown. They’ve cancelled electives, obviously, and lost a lot of income. Is there progress being made to reimburse them for that, or will they be out of pocket? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, there are. Prime Minister, did you want to talk to that, because I know Cabinet has looked at—we certainly have been having active discussions with private hospitals, because we were keen to see that that capacity, should it have been needed during this period, if our number of cases had gone up, and so we’ve been in active discussion, and we have asked each district health board to get in place an arrangement with their private hospitals in their areas. Media : So they won’t be [ Inaudible ], essentially? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That will be a discussion, yes. PM : One thing I should just—as a general principle for our health professionals and those who are working within the health sector, and this includes in primary healthcare, is that we haven’t made moves to reimburse lost revenue, because there are businesses around the country who have lost revenue during the response to COVID-19. What Cabinet has been very careful around is making sure where people have incurred COVID-related costs—and that’s been something that we’ve responded to for our GPs, for instance, with the fact that they may be doing consultations online or over the phone and haven’t been able to collect fees for that, or where they’ve been undertaking testing, we wanted to make sure there was nothing that stopped them from undertaking testing, for instance, for a returning non-resident or the like. That’s where we’ve been wanting to make sure we’re covering those costs, but there are many who have lost revenue during this period and it’s not just in the health sector. Media : Prime Minister, the Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, is pushing for the World Health Organization or another executive body to have inspection powers to be able to enter countries and trace the source of outbreaks. Have you had any recent discussions with your Australian counterpart? Has he raised this idea with you? PM : No, that’s not something we’ve specifically discussed. Media : Would you be open to this idea or to hear more about it? PM : You will have heard me share yesterday just the general principle that, of course, I think the entire globe will wish to learn from the experience that we’re all in the middle of right now—and we, of course, in New Zealand would be very open to that. There are things that all of us, of course, want to make sure that we’ve learnt, and particularly from best practice. But also that includes the speed at the beginning of outbreaks and also determining source. So I think we’re open to that but that, again, isn’t something we’ve been particularly at the forefront of. Media : Prime Minister, the Kōhanga Reo National Trust has advised all kōhanga reo to be closed during the level 3 lockdown. Do you support that? PM : Actually, I’ve seen kōhanga reo but also some from within the ECE provision who are making decisions based on what they see as the best interests for their personal workforce and their community, and we trust them to make those decisions. Of course, our overarching message is still if you can work and learn from home, you should work and learn from home—and that also includes our children and young people. What we’re wanting to make sure, though, that there is provision for those who are unable to do that but that that can be done safely within ECEs. Media : [ Inaudible ] aware the Government has ruled out using [ Inaudible ] technology, and what type of technology they were offering? PM : My understanding is there is no current work under way in that regard and no plans to. Media : What percentage of children are you expecting back at school next week? PM : Look, at the moment we don’t have anything definitive to give us a sense of numbers. I’ve only heard anecdotal feedback from the likes of some high schools and primary schools but very small numbers. But from what I’ve heard, the numbers that are registering for return are relatively small. But that is anecdotal. Media : Given the health Minister has now ordered a rapid audit of DHBs’ PPE distribution and the Auditor-General is investigating, are you still willing to state, as you’ve done before, that we have really good distribution systems? PM : We’ve said we’ve had good provision and good stocks. We’ve always been wanting to make sure that we have distribution performing at the level we expect right now. One of the areas where we think that there has been a need to improve has been from within DHBs sent out into those community health providers. That’s particularly where the Minister of Health is focused with this audit. Media : Some economists are saying that helicopter payments, one-off cash payments, to Kiwis would help stimulate the economy. Is that something the Government is seriously looking at? PM : Look, what we’ve been very careful around is just acknowledging that we’re at a point in the process where we are working through the range of options for making sure that we’re continuing to help our economy to recover, and, of course, the first, best example of that has been the speed of the wage subsidy programme. The Minister of Finance has also been very quick to point out that we’ve got to make sure that what we do works. There are certain points in a recovery where payments like that aren’t necessarily successful or create the stimulus you want. But we haven’t ruled things in or out at this stage; we are focused, though, on doing what will help our economy recover the fastest. Media : [ Inaudible ]? PM : Again, we haven’t ruled anything in or out, but we are focused on what is going to have the biggest effect in terms of supporting people’s livelihoods and getting our economy recovering. Media : Just to follow up, your commentary, then, sort of pointed out, perhaps, some of the problems with a universal payment. Are you saying that you don’t think it is necessarily the most effective way to stimulate the economy? PM : No, no. At this point, I’m actually not saying anything specific at all, because we are wanting to work through all of the options that are available when it comes to stimulating the economy and ensuring our economy can recover quickly. You would absolutely understand, though, why something like helicopter payments at level 4 aren’t especially successful. Media : Will you continue these daily press briefings when we go into level 3, and what will be the plan going into level 2? PM : I expect that we will change up the schedule a bit at level 3, in part because, of course, the House will be returning, and before everyone—well, not everyone; before some additional New Zealanders started tuning into press conferences daily, you’ll, of course, recall that I had one with you before Parliament or the House sat on sitting days. So I imagine we’ll return to a bit of a routine— Media : And do you think these daily press conferences have been helpful for New Zealanders that have been isolated at home? PM : That’s probably for New Zealanders to answer rather than me. Media : Your broadcasting and communications Minister said that he wanted to be ambitious with the second tranche of the media support— PM : That he wanted—sorry? Media : To be ambitious with the second tranche of the media support package. Do you expect that the second tranche will dwarf the first? PM : Oh, well, I do think that we shouldn’t diminish or trivialise a $50 million investment in supporting broadcasting and the media, print journalism—things that people have been relying on but have been hit hard by COVID-19. This first package, though—and acknowledging that your industry is only the third, really, to experience direct investment through COVID-19—this is very much focused on something we can do immediately to provide immediate support. What we need to do beyond that is actually work on some longer-term options. Media : Have there been any confirmed cases of COVID-19 related to the 250 seasonal workers? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, not at this point. However, what we are doing in Te Puke is one of our cases there has an association with—well, it doesn’t interact directly, but is involved with one of the hostels here for kiwifruit workers, and we felt it was important to actually test all of them, and I’ve just spoken this morning with the medical officer of health up there, and that testing is happening apace and will be completed by early afternoon. Media : Why have they not been held in isolation until those tests come back? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, there’s nothing to suggest there’s any problem there, and, of course, they are, in a sense, in a big bubble, and that has been maintained through alert level 4. We’re taking a precautionary approach here in testing them all. So I’ll let you know the results of that testing when we have it, which will probably be, at least some of it, tomorrow. Media : Our contact tracing teams—will they be able to handle a move to level 2 when our bubbles get much bigger? PM : Yes. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Absolutely. PM : You’ll see that we’ve boosted their capacity so that they can make 5,000 calls a day, and then we’ve gone even further to ensure they’ve got surge capacity—up to 10,000 calls a day—to help support contact tracing. That’s in addition to the cases that our local health teams are already able to manage. So surge capacity is there and it’s ready, and we’ll continue to invest in our public health units to make sure that we get that gold standard we want. Media : Is the principle behind Radio New Zealand getting funding there just the Oprah principle—you know, “You get a prize, you get a prize, you get a prize.”— PM : No, it’s not. Media : Is there any intention as to provide, perhaps, some more financial support for those businesses who are not able to open under level 3? PM : As the Minister of Finance has said, that we have been constantly reviewing what’s happening for specific businesses, the impacts of specific alert levels. So the wage subsidy, the tax changes have been particularly focused on those businesses who may have struggled with some of the short-term but immediate impacts on their cash flow. Now we’re looking beyond and looking at what specific sectors and businesses may continue to be impacted at level 3 in ways that others are not. So that’s part of just our ongoing COVID review to make sure that we are responding as quickly as we can to some of the need we see. I have no announcements to make on that today, but it is a constant piece of work that we do. Media : There’s been a suggestion at the Epidemic Response Committee that one way of stimulating the construction industry would be allowing overseas billionaires to purchase land here and inject $5 million, $10 million into construction. Do you see any merit to that? PM : Do you know that philosophy has existed in New Zealand for a number of years, and it’s never been one that I’ve subscribed to or believe actually achieves what people claim it does. Media : Do you have any update on recent community transmission cases? How long has it been since we had a new one? You said there were two yesterday and they weren’t recent onset cases. Has it been a long length of time since we had any new ones, and what does that say about how close we are to elimination? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So my team’s gone back through every case since 1 April to narrow down the ones where it’s not entirely clear where the source was. We were down to seven yesterday, and of those, even though they were classified as community transmission, it was quite clear where the person had been infected or the route back to infection, which was pre-lockdown. So we’re down to just a couple where it’s not necessarily clear, and those we may never know. But the important thing is—and one of those is actually the Te Puke one. So that’s why we are doing that wide testing around it, just to make sure, first of all, that there’s not COVID-19 that the person has caught it from from the wider group, but also to make sure that it’s not been transferred on. There’s no reason to believe it is. And, in fact, the close contacts of that person have all tested negative, but we’re just being doubly sure. So we’re in a very good position. Media : But you can’t say how long it’s been since we’ve had a new one? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t say exactly, but we’ll find out that information and we’ll make it available. Media : Is it, essentially, just, like, two known chains of transmission that we haven’t broken that we know about? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think what this goes down to—and, again, some of these cases, even of the others in that seven, we don’t know what the exact link back was to. Of course, all our cases in New Zealand at some point have been imported. So if we were able to go back through manual means, we could find out where they came from. But one of the other things we’re doing is we are asking ESR to do the genome sequence on some of these to find out what other cases they are linked to and if they look exactly like the genome, for example, of the virus when it was in Iran or if it had come out of Europe or out of China, because there are very subtle differences. So we’re using ESR’s genotyping—sorry, genome sequencing capacity—to also provide insights. PM : So at the moment, sometimes—actually, just a small handful, really, in recent times, and even then you can get a hint of what may have happened, even if it’s difficult to pinpoint precisely what has happened. Media : Just a question for Dr Bloomfield— PM : Nice use of eye contact to direct the question. Media : Yeah, I finally realised who’s who. Dr Bloomfield, just in regards to improving the capacity of contact tracing—the capacity and timeliness—on Sunday, I think it was, you said you were confident that within a week we’d reach what you described as the gold standard. Is that target still going to be met by this weekend? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, we’re well on track—and the team, I’m expecting a further report from by the end of today. There are two key things happening this week. One is our ministry team is working apace with getting the information system up and even further developed, but I’ve also got folk out visiting several of the public health units to do a, I guess, needs analysis about what additional capacity they need, because, actually, the first recommendation in Dr Ayesha Verrall’s report was that the public health units need to be boosted. So we’re out there, and the funding’s been made available, and we want to make sure that they get the skills and people they need. Of course, we won’t be able to pop them in within a couple of days, but it means that over the coming weeks, we’ll be able to increase capacity out in our public health units as well. Media : So just to be clear, the gold standard is 80 percent—tracing 80 percent of close contacts within three days? PM : The KPIs of the Verrall report. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, that’s one of the key indicators, so that’s what we’re aiming to get to. It will continue to evolve and develop, but by the end of this week, we’re going to have a platform there to be able to do the sort of contact tracing we need to do. Media : GPs are telling us that anyone living in a crowded home or with a pre-existing health condition can be tested at community testing centres. Is that the case? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the community-based assessment centres are for people who have symptoms, and either they turn up themselves or are referred by a general practice or by Healthline. There’s no need for people to go in if they are asymptomatic just to get a test—for example, because of their living conditions. So saying, there is some widespread testing happening across a range of workforces and settings by our DHBs this week, and out in rural communities, and you’ve seen that reflected in the 6,400 tests that have been done, because, actually, the number of people with respiratory symptoms at the moment is, you know, almost record low, because we haven’t been transmitting these infections to each other. Media : We’re down to just three COVID-19 cases. Did the modelling that the Government have suggest that we’re never going to get back up to double digits again—basically, we’re here at single digits for the foreseeable? PM : There’s no such thing as never, because it all comes down to our behaviour from here, and that’s where that team of 5 million is so important. We do need to keep in mind all of the public health principles that we’ve been using and practising to date: washing your hands, keeping your distance, staying at home if you’re sick, getting a test if you’re symptomatic. Those will need to be with us for a long time. So there is no such thing as never. Media : Is part of the gold standard of contact tracing an end-to-end system where we can see the time line of when a case first had symptoms, when they were tested, when the result came back, and when the contacts were traced? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So it’s definitely an end-to-end system, and that’s what we are setting up, with a national view of that. We’re still working through the exact indicators, because—just for example, one of the ones you talked about was understanding exactly when the onset of symptoms was, and this can be quite tricky because often people will present several days or even a week down the track, and they can’t remember their exact onset of symptoms. So there are three key things we’re wanting to do: first of all, get New Zealanders to get tested as soon as they get symptoms, or seek advice about testing; secondly, get the test turnaround from swab to result as short as possible, and we know from our laboratory data that that’s getting very good; and the third bit—and this is the critical bit—is identify and contact any close contacts within the three days and get them into self-isolation, and tested if they need to be tested. So that’s the sort of end-to-end process—and then make sure that they are staying in self-isolation. So that’s the system we are setting up and want to be able to monitor and report on. PM : One of the things that’s really insightful from some of the reports we’ve been having, even in recent days: you can see that we may have a positive test, and then our teams from the PHUs are going in to try and identify where the origin of that case was and may then find that, actually, it was someone else in the household who was first symptomatic, and that might’ve been some time ago. And so even when we’re producing—we might then test them or list them as a probable case. That data, then, won’t be a fair representation of the speed of our contact tracing, because that person never presented and was only identified through the work that those PHUs are doing. So I think it’s just important to keep some of that in mind. It’s not necessarily always a linear process. Sometimes, we’re going back and identifying other cases as part of that investigatory work. But the fact that we can come down and tell you within a couple of hours of the cases that we’ve had that day—what we know of where they’ve come from—tells you that our PHUs are working very, very quickly. Media : Isn’t the visibility across that system, from infection to contact—to have that in one system and having that visible is critical to ring-fencing that whole chain of transmission— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s where we want to be, but as the Prime Minister said, actually, our public health units are very effective at doing this. This is their core business. And so this will help us have a national view, and particularly, as we have had, where we’ve got clusters where there are people across the country, that’s very important. But our public health units are very good at finding people and then getting them isolated and ring-fencing, and they do this very effectively. And that’s been a good part of why we have been able, also, to be in the position we’re in now. Media : How prepared are you for a second wave of COVID-19 in New Zealand, like what’s happened overseas? PM : We’re doing everything we can to prevent New Zealand experiencing the second wave that we have seen in other countries, and that’s why we’re moving slowly, cautiously, confidently down through our alert level system. At the same time, we’re very prepared, we’re taking nothing for granted, but I’m confident, with the path that we’ve carved ourselves, we should prevent New Zealand having that experience. Media : Apologies if this has already been asked, but how many of those probable cases have returned negative tests? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Of all the probable cases? Well— Media : [ Inaudible ] proportion, yeah. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, well, by definition, a probable case is one that does return a negative test but the sense is, given the clinical picture and the epidemiological link, that this is a probable case and it is treated and managed as if it was a case. Media : So none of those probable cases have not been tested, and we’re just assuming they— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, some of them are not tested—for example, where it might be a child and the symptoms were some time ago. The challenge of doing a nasal swab—it’s not that pleasant—and also the likelihood of getting a positive test is low, but, to be inclusive, we’re including them in our probable cases. PM : We did have, for instance, an example of one of the patients in one of the aged-care facilities whose family didn’t wish for them to be tested but we still considered probable, so there will be cases like that. We’ll wrap up soon, so Ben and then I’ll come back over here. Media : Governments of the world are, obviously, encountering this huge incoming fiscal burden—you know, how to pay for all of the stimulus packages—and New Zealand is no exception. Speaking to people in the Pacific in developing countries, as I’ve done the last couple of weeks reporting on tropical cyclone Harold, lots of fears that foreign-aid budgets will be cut as a result of developed countries having less money—can you confirm whether this will be ring-fenced in terms of next Budget— PM : I’m not going to get ahead of the Budget, which will, obviously, be released not too far away, but what I would say is that New Zealand has always been mindful of our responsibility to particularly our Pacific Island neighbours, in times of hardship and in good times, and it’s no different for us now. What I would keep in mind is, actually, some of the aid projects that we would usually be engaged with haven’t been as easy to continue to roll out—it’s required entry into our Pacific neighbours, within their borders, which has been limited—so it does mean that we may be seeing some of the reorientation of support into areas of need where we can actually facilitate the investment of aid and development funding. Media : So funding levels should roughly be the same? PM : Again, I’m not going to get ahead of the Budget process, but you know from New Zealand’s values that when there is need, New Zealand does its bit. Media : Prime Minister, this is a non-COVID question. Where are negotiations at over Ihumātao—have they completely ground to a halt during this COVID response, or have there being ongoing talks that the Government’s been part of? PM : We certainly haven’t gone backwards, and you’ll remember that, actually, we were making very good progress before COVID-19 hit, and none of that progress has been lost. But as you can imagine, there hasn’t been the ability to bring any finality or closure to that at this time, just because, really, that face-to-face contact and our ability to facilitate some of those negotiations has been limited. OK, thanks everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Hon Kris Faafoi : Right, good afternoon, everyone. Today, I’m announcing the first of two media sector support packages to help media affected by COVID-19. Today’s support package is a first step to provide immediate and urgent help for the media sector. It’s well known that New Zealand’s media sector has been facing challenges well before COVID-19, but the disruption from COVID has compounded the difficulties, with significant losses of advertising. Without Government intervention, we risk losing the skills and range of perspectives which provide important independent news and information that New Zealanders rely on, especially at times like these, so we’ve developed an immediate support package in consultation with the media sector. The first package focuses on initiatives that can provide immediate or near-term assistance. It’s aimed at helping media in print, online, and broadcast channels at national, regional, and local community levels. The initiatives in the first package are reducing the costs payable by media organisations for transmission and New Zealand On Air - funded content by funding 100 percent of Kordia and other television and FM transmission fees for six months, 100 percent of the AM transmission fees for six months, an 80 percent reduction in media organisations’ New Zealand On Air contribution fees for the 2020-21 financial year. The Government will also be purchasing central government news media subscriptions in advance for the 2020-21 financial year, and encouraging Government-funded agencies to increase their uptake of news media subscriptions. There’s also the delegated authority for me and the Minister of Finance to approve targeted assistance on the advice of officials to ensure the support fits the different needs of the various media organisations that request it. And we also state a commitment to build on the Local Democracy Reporting project which has been trialled in the regions around the country over the past 12 months, funding journalists to focus on reporting about publicly appointed elected officials or organisations such as local councils, committee boards, and DHBs. We see the further development of this work as part of a second longer-term strategy which will provide further support to retain journalists; regional and national news and current affairs coverage, including local news; maintain media plurality; and make sure regulation is suitable. Further announcements on the longer-term strategies will be made in due course. We will work with media entities to make sure that whatever access they have to both these short-term measures and longer-term assistance is on the basis of their needs and future viability. The direct cost of this package is $50 million. Māori Television, Te Māngai Pāho, and the National Pacific Radio Trust have also been involved in helping shape the initiatives in this package. As they’re primarily Crown funded, they are not impacted to the same extent as commercially funded media. However, they could see benefits in the waiving of transmission costs, and Māori Television could see savings from New Zealand On Air contributions. Officials are finalising the details of how media can access the support package. The intent is to make this as swift as possible. This morning, I spoke to a number of media chief executives to give them a heads up on this package. They were thankful but, like me, understand that this package alone will not ensure the sustainability of the sector. We will need to continue to work with them to design the second phase and, importantly, move swiftly if conditions change. Finally, I’d like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of the media in keeping New Zealanders up to date with the news and important information during this time of crisis. It has certainly been appreciated by the public. I’m happy to take any questions. Media : Where’s the commitment that the Government will prioritise advertising on local media rather than on Google and Facebook? Hon Kris Faafoi : That is certainly going to be part, Tova, of the second tranche of work that we’re looking at. This first package is aimed at immediate cash-flow assistance for media companies, so that is why that’s made up of the transmission fees, and some of those direct conversations we’ll have with media organisations. Certainly, those conversations are being had about the second tranche of work, and already our Treasury has been in touch with our counterparts across the Tasman to work in tandem with them. Media : Can you make a commitment that that will be coming, because that was one of the things that, across the board, media bosses were— Hon Kris Faafoi : I can make a commitment that that’s certainly going to be one of the important discussions as part of the second package. Media : And the $11.1 million discretionary fund, will State broadcasters be able to access that as well? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes, they will, because I think most of the conversations around that will be about bringing forward Government advertising spending. Only one entity could do that in a large way. The issue with that is that, in our conversations directly with the media companies, they are all in different positions and we wanted to make sure that, while we might be able to assist with cash flow, we also wanted to make sure that there was prudent spending of taxpayer money. Media : Have you had any indication from media bosses about how many jobs this will save? Hon Kris Faafoi : No, I haven’t. They were very short phone calls this morning that I had. I want to stress that this is the first package, and this alone will not be able to cure all the problems that the media sector has. I think some of the long-term solutions will certainly be part of the discussions and, of course, some of the commitment that the Government will make towards the second package. Media : Minister, there doesn’t appear to be a lot in here for print, but particularly Stuff. Are they on their own, or do you expect them to make— Hon Kris Faafoi : No, they’re not. As I say, I have spoken to a number of chief executives. I will be having bespoke conversations with those entities about how they might be able to access some of that more flexible funding. And, again, it depends on the nature of the entity, as are those discussions that they’ll be having with officials to figure out how that can be of assistance to them. Media : Would you not agree, though, that the package is very weighted in favour of broadcasting? And can you explain how it’s going to help print and digital? Hon Kris Faafoi : Well, I think that’s because of the nature of the cost and immediacy that we want. It’s expensive for transmission costs for the likes of broadcasters, and it is immediate relief that we’re trying to get through. The flexibility that we have within that $11.1 million of funding will allow us to have some of those bespoke conversations with specific entities to make sure that, if we can assist them with initiatives like bringing Government advertising forward, we might be able to advance that. Media : So do you not believe, then, that there’s a need for urgency to help out print and digital entities? Hon Kris Faafoi : There’s an urgency to help out everyone. The nature of the funding envelope is weighted purely because of the nature of the cost of some of the media platforms. In this case, being transmission, it’s six months’ worth of television, FM, and AM frequency fees, which, off the top of my head, is roughly $20 million. That’s the cost of transmission fees. Media : Hundreds of our print colleagues have lost their jobs already during the COVID crisis. So where is the additional support, the triaging for the print industry? Hon Kris Faafoi : So, as I said, this is a first package of two media support packages. There are some fundamental issues about the structure and nature of the media sector, which were present before COVID, that we want to make sure are addressed when we take a look at the second support package. This isn’t about making sure we prop up failing businesses; it’s about making sure that we can support the important function of journalism in New Zealand. And I think that’s what we need to make sure that we are focusing on, in terms of the second package as well. Media : Is that a suggestion that the Government would get behind the Stuff/ME merger, for example? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not going to go into any of those hypotheticals at the moment. We’ve had discussions with nearly—with every media entity. I want to tell you they’re working very hard behind the scenes to try and make this work, but those discussions have been commercially sensitive. So a lot of the answers of the type that I’ll be giving today might not necessarily be helpful, but if we need to take policy action, I’m going to have to keep a lot of the information that has been given to me—commercially sensitive—to myself. Media : That online advertising, though—it would provide immediate relief, which is what you’re saying. So why isn’t it in this first package? Why are we having to wait for the second package? Hon Kris Faafoi : Because it takes time to effect those changes. We’re having discussions with some of those platforms very soon. That is not something that can be turned around fast. We were getting pressure to make sure we did something in the short term to have an immediate adrenalin hit for the sector. This is what this is, while we make sure we continue to work on the second package, which will look at issues like competition and like issues around online advertising. Media : Are you willing to let some of those large legacy media companies fail and lose hundreds of jobs? Hon Kris Faafoi : Look, at the end of the day, some of those decisions aren’t in our hands. We’ve spoken to some of the owners of media entities but not all, and so some of those decisions won’t necessarily be made by us, but some of the principles that are driving actions in the short and the long term are media plurality, making sure that we support the function of journalism, and making sure we can retain as many jobs as we possibly can. Media : So you accept that some of the [ Inaudible ] will fail? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not going to be talking about that openly, Thomas, because some of that might draw on information that I have been given on a commercially sensitive basis. Media : What is the state of TVNZ’s finances right now? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not going to go into that—again, because that’s commercially sensitive information. Media : Stuff is the largest employer of journalists in the country and also has the largest number of local newsrooms, yet it receives the least from this package. Can you explain your thinking on that? Hon Kris Faafoi : I guess, again, a lot of that comes down, if you’re going to put it in the context of the overall envelope, Andrea—is transmission costs are high. There’s also a conversation that I’ve had with all the chief executives today that there is the ability through that $11.1 million appropriation within the $50 million to have bespoke conversations with every entity about what support might look like for them. So I can’t give you exactly what the support out of that might look like for Stuff, but I’m aware of the nature of it and the importance of it in the media environment, and we’re continuing to have discussions with them. Media : Did you look at the Australian model, where they’re requiring entities like Facebook to share revenue with the media companies? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes, we are going to be looking at that, and that discussion is going to be part of the second package. And as I said at the outset, Treasury officials have been in contact with their relevant counterparts across the Tasman to make sure that we can work with them. Media : Are you drawing a line saying there will be no bail-outs for media companies, even if they are on the brink of collapse? Hon Kris Faafoi : Our principles are making sure that we support media plurality, making sure that we support the function of journalism, and making sure that we support as many jobs as possible. As well as this media support package, most media entities, if they are able to, have accessed initiatives like the wage subsidy, etc. So we’re trying to do as much as we can in the short term to give us some time to have some of the wider discussions that were plaguing the media sector before COVID happened, and I think if we’re all honest with each other, some of those discussions need to be had. [ Interruption ] Media : Sorry, can I just finish that line of questioning. Following on from Thomas’ questioning, you are willing to let media organisations fail? Hon Kris Faafoi : We’ll deal with everything on a case-by-case basis as it comes to us, but our principles are making sure we support plurality, jobs, and the function of journalism. We could stay here for hours and throw out every hypothetical about what might happen; a lot of those hypotheticals I won’t answer because they are hypotheticals and I would be answering on the basis of commercially sensitive information that has been given to me. I have to work in good faith with some of the chief executives of this company in order for us to make sure we’ve got a long-term and sustainable media. Media : Thank you. In terms of subscriptions, I note that $1.3 million has been allocated for the 2020-2021 financial year. Just by way of context, how much was spent in the 2019-2020 year? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not sure about that, Jenèe; I’ll have to come back with that information. Media : So is that $1.3 an increase, or is it, basically, just the same as what’s already been [ Inaudible ]? Hon Kris Faafoi : I don’t know the base figure—I would hope it’s an increase. But the feedback that we had from operators of smaller subscription services was that the Government wasn’t pulling its weight to make sure—Government departments weren’t pulling its weight to make sure that it paid for its fair share of usage of their media. Media : Minister, you touched on it briefly, but could you detail the impact this will have on Māori media? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, look, in a technical sense, obviously, they have audio transmission costs as well, and may to some degree have New Zealand On Air costs that they would have when they get funded for New Zealand On Air. Just like every other media entity, they will be able to access that relief, as well as some of the work that Minister Mahuta was doing with the Māori media sector shift before COVID. Being part of the conversations that are had around the second package around the look of a long-term, sustainable model for media—Māori media will, obviously, have to be pretty central to that. Media : The subscription fund—is that ring-fenced for actual subscriptions, or, you know, all of New Zealand media now? I think print media—sorry, and digital media—operate some sort of subscription—sorry, donation model. Will you be allowing that to be used for donations as well? Hon Kris Faafoi : My understanding is it’s more for the smaller type of subscription services. Media : And the $11 million fund—what is that for? Is that a media boss picks up the phone and says, “We’re in trouble.”? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, look, as I say, every conversation that we have with media entities has a certain similarity to it, but they’re all in different financial positions. Initiatives like bringing forward Government advertising spend could come out of that, and certainly that was the tone of some of the conversations I had with some of the managers and chief executives that I’ve had today. Again, we want to make sure that we’re being able to assist cash flow for some of those entities if that’s the position they’re in, but also, around viability of an entity, we need to make sure that that money is spent prudently. So they will have to speak with Treasury and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage officials to make sure that we get that right. Media : How long do you think it will last for? Pretty fast, looking at how much— Hon Kris Faafoi : It depends on what the particular needs are. You know, again, we’ve designed this package in consultation with media companies, and some have given us an idea of how much Government spending on advertising they’ve had in the previous 12 months. And that’s helped us get to some figures to have available for this, again, first and short-term support package. Media : How likely is it, do you think, that going forward in the next couple of years we’re going to see a smaller media market in New Zealand? Hon Kris Faafoi : I’m not sure if you can guarantee smaller, but I think you can guarantee— Media : Less companies? Hon Kris Faafoi : No, I think we can guarantee it’s different. That all depends on how particular media companies might want to change their business models. But, again, I think there’s a natural level of function of journalism that our Government wants to see to make sure we’ve got local journalism, national journalism, investigative journalism that most companies that are in the media now, to be fair to say, are struggling to provide. So if there’s some way that we can do that through beefing up what is the local democracy reporting model at the moment—and, as I said, it’s very early stages; it’s only a 12-month pilot run last year, but bringing that to a head and seriously investing in that is one of the things that we’re looking to commit to as part of the second media support package. Media : Can you give any further examples of bespoke solutions aside from the Government [ Inaudible ]? Hon Kris Faafoi : Oh, look, there are plenty. Again, I might be giving away some details that particular companies might be in, but I’ve chosen that one because that came through as a [ Inaudible ] through almost all companies that have had Government spending. Media : Minister, there’s an enduring perception that the Government’s quite happy to bolster TVNZ and RNZ and let the rest of the sector take its chances. What’s your response to that? Hon Kris Faafoi : I think it’s wrong. Certainly, pre-COVID we had a look at the challenges that the media sector had and we saw it as our responsibility to make sure that public broadcasting continued to be strong, given the challenges that the competitive market, or the open market, was having. COVID has obviously changed that because the advertising revenue challenges that most commercial media players had pre-COVID are obviously a lot sharper as we go through COVID. That is why we are here now with a $50 million package in the short term to give the media sector an adrenalin hit to make sure that we have the time and the ability to have to have the wider conversations with the sector as a whole to see how we can make the media sector more sustainable. Media : Can you please explain why you’re cutting and subsidising RNZ’s transmission fees, when, effectively, the Government’s paying those anyway, aren’t they, via RNZ? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes—to a degree—I’m not sure how much that is within the overall package of transmission fees, but there is a degree of money go-round there, but they are, again, another transmission company that might pay fees to Kordia or themselves. So I’m sure Treasury will sort that out. Media : What’s the point in that when RNZ hasn’t lost any funding during COVID? Hon Kris Faafoi : Well, it’s not about, necessarily, losing the funding; the parameters of that is if you pay a transmission fee, you don’t have to pay for it for the next six months. Media : [ Inaudible ] the Government’s paying it, anyway, for RNZ. Hon Kris Faafoi : And I’m sure Treasury will sort that out. My understanding is that it’s a minimal amount of money. Media : The advertising spend isn’t necessarily new money; it’s just bringing it forward—it’s more of a cash-flow measure rather than a bolstering measure. Hon Kris Faafoi : Yes. That’s correct. Media : Is there any sense that you might want to, you know, boost the level of advertising— Hon Kris Faafoi : That was one of the things that was talked about in some of the consultation that MCH did with media companies in the lead-up to this package. And I think it’s one of the issues that we’ll look at for the second tranche. Media : What was the mood of those media execs this morning? Hon Kris Faafoi : It’s a challenge. And, you know, we spoke to them possibly about a week and a half, two weeks, ago, as we were putting the package together, and for some, things had moved on significantly. I think, as I say, while they welcome the package, they know that there’s more work to do to make sure that they can have a sustainable future. And I think, as, you know, no one is not susceptible to the challenges, as in every sector, but, you know, they’re trying their hardest to make sure that they can keep their businesses sustainable and people in jobs. Media : Is the RNZ/TVNZ merger still part of your thinking as part of that second tranche? Hon Kris Faafoi : Let’s say that’s on ice. We’ve asked PricewaterhouseCoopers who are doing the business case for that to continue that work. They’re going to deliver it in July, I understand. While it’s on ice, it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s dead; I just think there are wider issues for us to contend with at the moment with the wider sector. But, again, I think making sure that we have a strong public media is extremely important. But that decision, which was at the forefront of our minds pre-COVID is not necessarily right in front of us right now. Media : Can you please tell us how much more the Government has spent over the last year on advertising on the likes of Google and Facebook and social media versus local media, and how much that’s increased, perhaps, over a five-year period? Hon Kris Faafoi : The advice that I’ve given is that the Government has spent—and it might not be total but I think it’s pretty close—is about $110 million for the year ’18-’19, I believe, is the figures that I’ve been given. And about 30 percent of that was to online platforms. The rest of it was television, radio, print, [ Inaudible ], etc. Again, we’re digging into those numbers as we get into the second tranche, because we need to answer the question about how much of an affect precisely is Google and Facebook having not just with Government advertising spend, but across the board, to make sure that we’re informed when we look at the issues such as what the Australians are doing at the moment. Media : When will we expect that second tranche, though? As you say, for media companies, this is moving really quickly at the moment— Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, I can’t give you an exact date on that, but we are aware of the urgency. Media : Weeks or months? Budget? Hon Kris Faafoi : I would say weeks—please don’t hold me to that. But, again, we’re aware of the urgency. Media : So is that roughly $33 million a year goes to Google and Facebook and advertisers— Hon Kris Faafoi : Of 110? I think it was about 110. So I think it was about 30 percent, or something like that. I can get you the figures, but, again, I don’t think it was precise, but I think it’s pretty much in the ball park for Government advertising spend. Media : So you’re spending more than half on advertising on Google and Facebook than you are on the media support package? Hon Kris Faafoi : Pardon? Media : You’re spending more than half the amount on advertising on Google and Facebook media than you are on the media support package. Hon Kris Faafoi : And I would stress that this is the first tranche of two media support packages. Media : And with the second tranche—will the budget be roughly the same, or will there be more, or is it more of a kind of a structural thing? Hon Kris Faafoi : I would like to be more ambitious. I think, you know, we see this as an adrenalin shot for short-term support, and, you know, while we are yet to have the conversation with the powers that be, I think if we’re dealing with structural issues with the media, then I think we have to think seriously about—if we look at upgrading the local democracy reporting scheme—being serious about it. Media : Minister, what’s been the cost of the new information thing on Facebook that pops up at the top that the Government has done—sort of official COVID information? Hon Kris Faafoi : I don’t know the answer to that question; I can get that for you. Media : This media package was expected last week. What happened—why the delay? Hon Kris Faafoi : I wouldn’t necessarily call it a delay; I think I said in the select committee last Wednesday that it’d take about a week. We got it through our committee yesterday, and I’m here on Thursday announcing it. Media : Outside of the $11.1 million which hasn’t been signed yet, how much money is specifically going to go to Stuff, which is the country’s largest employer of journalists? Hon Kris Faafoi : Well, we can’t answer that yet. Again, those bespoke conversations have to be had with that particular entity, and other entities, to give both Treasury officials and the Minister of Finance and me some assurance that it’s appropriate. Media : Is there an option to extend the amount of time that those transmission fees would be cut? Hon Kris Faafoi : Yeah, there is. So we’ve said six months. As I said to chief executives this morning, my crystal ball isn’t that flash, but we’ll keep an eye on the situation for, you know, the next three, four, or five months about that particular initiative when the time comes. Media : Could that form part of a more long-term measure to keep the industry going? Hon Kris Faafoi : I think at this stage the Minister of Finance might not necessarily be happy if I committed to that, but it’s certainly something that we’re OK to look at in, you know, four or five months’ time. Media : Could I ask you a personal question—I know you’ve been a Minister for a while and an MP for a long time, but you were also a journalist once—how bizarre is this, or how hard has it been for you to hear about the concerns of the industry and [ Inaudible ] this support package? Hon Kris Faafoi : They say once a journalist, always a journalist. And I might get myself in trouble with my current colleagues about that. But I fundamentally believe in the function of journalism in New Zealand. We might not like getting harassed, standing here, all the time, but it’s an important part of the democratic process, and we see that and we understand that and we need to be held to account. And, to a degree, we think there has been a bit of market failure in the last couple of years, which is why we saw it fit to bolster public media. COVID came along and has changed a lot of things. But, you know, I’m not going to talk about jobs, but I think the function of journalism in this country is extremely important. We’re a small country, and even though, I think, we might think we’re doing a great job, being asked questions about what we’re doing is extremely important. Media : You probably wouldn’t call questioning harassing, though. Hon Kris Faafoi : It depends on which side of the podium you’re on. Thanks everyone. PM : Kia ora koutou katoa. It’s day 29 of COVID-19 alert level 4. We’ll start, as per usual, with Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. So today we have two new confirmed cases and one new probable case of COVID-19 to report. However, there is actually no change in the total number of COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, which remains at 1,451—the same as yesterday. Let me briefly explain. There were three cases we reported yesterday who were confirmed cases off the Greg Mortimer ship, where people had been repatriated from Uruguay. However, we understand that their original testing was done in Uruguay, and we are checking with the authorities there as to whether they have already reported them to the WHO, to make sure that the World Health Organization totals are accurate. So, to report—again, just to reiterate—two new confirmed and one new probable case. Our laboratories processed a record 6,480 tests yesterday, so if you look at the new confirmed cases, less than 0.05 percent were positive, and we’ve now processed 101,277 tests for COVID-19. All the cases we’re reporting today are linked to existing cases. Sadly, today, I have two further deaths to report as a result of COVID-19 infection. A patient has died who has been very unwell in intensive care in Dunedin Hospital with COVID-19 since 7 April. She was in her 60s and had an underlying health condition. While her family have not been able to visit her over the past few weeks, arrangements were made for them to be with her last night as she passed away. The second death is a resident at Rosewood Rest Home in Christchurch. This man, in his 70s, passed away in the hospital-level wing of that unit last night. He was not part of the group that had been transferred to Burwood Hospital. The man had an underlying condition, and while he had tested negative for COVID-19, he was considered a probable case based on his exposure and symptoms. And, as I have said before, these probable cases are treated as if they are positive, and managed in the same way, and we are including them in all our statistics—including our mortality statistics. Our sympathies go out to the families of both of these people, and, once again, we are reminded of the serious threat that this infection poses to individuals and our communities. Today, there are eight people in hospital with COVID-19, and one person is in ICU in Middlemore Hospital. There are still the same 16 significant clusters, and four additional cases have now been linked to those clusters. Some brief comments on health services under level 3, in advance of heading into that alert level. So hospitals remain open for emergency and acute care, of course, and I encourage all people to seek acute care for whatever their condition, through either Healthline or their GP or at the hospital. Some elective services, including surgery and radiology, will be provided under alert level 3, and more detail will follow on that. In aged residential care, only family visits for palliative and compassionate care reasons will be considered, and that will be on a case-by-case basis. General practices of course will be open, as they have been through alert level 4, and they will be continuing to conduct virtual consultations as much as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or respiratory symptoms, please seek help through Healthline or by calling ahead to your regular doctor. Community pharmacies remain open, dental services may provide urgent face-to-face appointments under alert level 3 but not routine dental care. Community midwives will continue to do the fantastic work they do with pregnant women out in the community, using virtual means where possible but also face to face. There will be an allowance for some face-to-face services for physiotherapy, podiatry, and optometry, and so on, where urgent care is required, but they will continue to provide services as much as possible virtually. And, finally, community mental health service appointments will continue to be done by virtual means, or by phone where possible; face-to-face appointments if necessary. And you’ll have seen the Minister of Health just announce that he’s asked me to do a quick stocktake around all our district health boards on the processes they are using to distribute PPE to our providers based in the community, so we can get an idea of what PPE is going out, how quickly they are responding to orders, and how any concerns are dealt with. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Later today, the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management, Sarah Stuart-Black, will give an update on what our civil defence groups across the country have been doing to support vulnerable New Zealanders. She’ll also be joined by Police Commissioner Andy Coster for a briefing. The work that’s been done by our civil defence group may be going unnoticed to the vast majority of New Zealanders while everyone is in their bubbles, but it is work that keeps people who would otherwise be without fed, warm, and well. We have been working hard to ensure that we’re meeting need where it exists, which is why yesterday we put another $30 million into our civil defence groups—so they can keep providing food parcels, household goods, and accommodation where it’s required—and that follows the immediate assistance you’ll remember some time ago of $27 million put in to support that work. And so, on the ground, 16 local civil defence groups are doing what they do best. They’re coordinating across all Government agencies, organisations including NGOs, iwi, and community-based groups. While COVID-19 may seem like a different kind of emergency to what we’ve dealt with in recent years, like floods and fires, the role of civil defence is very much the same: ensuring communities, individuals, families, and whānau have the support they need. There is an 0800 number for every group that people can call if they are out of supplies or struggling to get basic food. They’ve been providing emergency accommodation, a stop-gap service before they are referred to MBIE’s temporary accommodation service. This is business as usual for them, but they also now have powers activated by the state of national emergency in support of the COVID-19 response, as you’re all well aware. So far, that’s been used for things like closing roads to prevent vehicle access to back country to stop activities that might result in rescue activity. In Taranaki, they have moved on freedom campers. In Canterbury, they have requisitioned a car park for use as a community-based assessment centre. Coordination is a role not to be underestimated. It’s what helps get what is required to those who need it most, and I do want to pass on my thanks to the amazing work that’s being done by those civil defence groups in our local areas. A short word on hunting. While food parcels keep families fed, we know that in many parts of New Zealand, hunting is also a part of providing for many people’s families and whānau. You would have seen that decisions have now been made for this activity in alert level 3. Hunting can go ahead under alert level 3, so long as you stay in your region, so long as you stay in your bubble, and we’re asking that people please don’t put themselves at risk of needing rescue. So that means don’t use quad bikes, off-road motorbikes, or any motorised vehicles for the purposes of hunting. DOC land is closed for tramping and other activities, and also for hunting, at level 3. On private land, you’ll, of course, need landowners’ permission. Hunting is an important part of life for many New Zealanders. In many places around the country, it fills freezers for the months ahead. It also rids farmland of pests. These restrictions allow for it to happen safely and in a way that minimises the risk of losing the great progress that we’ve made and also is in keeping with the principles that we’ve set out for alert level 3 around travel, around bubbles, and around activity. We’ve also had discussions with Fish & Game about the duck hunting season. As many of you will know, the season is gazetted in advance and was due to begin on 2 May. Cabinet was concerned that under the level 3 guidelines for hunting, some people would be excluded from the season, perhaps in part because they lived at too great a distance to where they may need to be. There was also concern that if it started soon and people weren’t able to take part, it would end up being a shorter season for some people. For that reason, the duck hunting season will go ahead in the second weekend after New Zealand moves to alert level 2. The season, once it gets under way, will be extended to make up for the delay. I know this will be disappointing for many, But we recognise that opening weekend is quite a social event for many people, and we still must reduce down contact at level 3 as much as possible. This decision means all those who usually take part in duck hunting will be able to, just on a slightly different time frame than otherwise. I also want to be clear that hunting will be able to resume normally at level 2 once we get there. Just, today is not that day. On Saturday, Anzac Day, I will be one of many New Zealanders who will take part in an initiative called “Stand At Dawn”. The RSA has encouraged all of us to commemorate our service personnel by standing at the end of our driveways or near our letterboxes at 6 a.m.—to stand at dawn. I know how hard it will be this year, our first Anzac Day in history where services have been cancelled due to COVID-19, but that doesn’t mean we can’t show our support as a collective. As dawn breaks, we can stand at the end of those driveways, and together and silent, and pay tribute to those we should never forget. We can still take time to pause, reflect, and pay our respects to the people who have given so much to us. This year, we are calling for all Kiwis worldwide to stand at their letterbox, their front door, their balcony, or their essential place of work at 6 a.m. on 25 April. The official dawn service broadcast will be on RNZ National radio at 6 a.m. and will include an address by the Minister of Defence and Minister for Veterans, Ron Mark. If anyone wants to find out more details, I encourage you to visit standatdawn.com. And so, in the spirit of recognising those who have been a part of our COVID-19 response, today I want to thank the New Zealand Defence Force past, present, and future, for all that you do to keep peace, to keep us safe, to help us recover from natural disasters, to help our Pacific neighbours, to reflect our strength of spirit across the world, and more recently for your work on COVID-19. Some 60 expert planners and logistics personnel have helped with central government operations, such as health and police centres, as well as regional emergency operations centres. More than 600 have helped to manage isolation facilities and distribute care packages to those in need. This comes alongside usual work such as search and rescue, and disaster relief. I’d like to make special mention of the crews from 5 Squadron and 40 Squadron of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, who have also been flying relief flights in support of our Pacific neighbours in Vanuatu, Fiji, and Tonga, who have been hard hit by tropical cyclone Harold. We, as always, are grateful for your service. Thank you. I’m now happy to take your questions. Media : How many people have recovered? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The number of people who have recovered has increased by 29, and it is now 1,065. Media : Have you been in touch with that family connected to the Dunedin fatality? They were on radio this morning saying that they’d been given false hope from these press conferences by saying that the person was stable. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. So I haven’t personally, but I know the medical officer of health has and we, through our comms team, cleared the statement I have made today with the family. So, yes, prior to yesterday, the information I had was that the person who has subsequently died was in critical condition, and yesterday it said “stable”, which reflected the fact there had been no change. But I am very sorry because I think, from that story, that did create some anxiety and concern for the family. So I’m sorry that that happened, and I am certainly happy to be in touch with them personally if they would like to. PM : We’ve also talked about, in future, maybe distinctions that talk about people being in ICU without necessarily the breakdown of their status within ICU, because, in this case, perhaps the health terminology will mean different things to different people. No one wants to create any kind of extra additional distress for families, as obviously has been caused in this case. Media : Can you clarify the case-by-case basis on which family members will be able to visit their loved ones in hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry, do you mean under current— Media : Under level 3. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Under level 3, yes, there is some new guidance going up on our website around this, and so that will be at the discretion of the senior clinician if a person does have COVID-19, and there will be provision if the clinician feels it’s safe—there will be provision for a family member to visit, and PPE will be provided and its use will be instructed so that will keep the family member safe. Media : So there are no changes under level 4? Is that right? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry? Media : There are no changes in that regard? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No changes under level 4. That’s an intention under level 3. Media : You were speaking before about under level 3, if someone is in palliative care or end-of-life care, allowing visitors. The website says that visitors from the extended bubble with no suspicion of COVID-19 will be allowed one at a time, but that doesn’t specify that that’s just for palliative care. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : You mean—that was in aged residential care facilities that I was talking about? The arrangement in aged residential care is still no visiting, except in the circumstances of where it’s a palliative situation, and then compassionate visiting will be organised through the facility manager. Media : What about in hospitals—people will be able to visit? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The visiting policy is different in hospitals. For people without COVID-19, anyway, there is an ability under alert level 3 for individual family members to visit. Media : On that Burwood group, are you able to give us an update of how many remain either confirmed or probable cases and what their conditions are? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have that information but I will seek out that information and we can make that available. PM : Certainly, it is the case, isn’t it, Dr Bloomfield, that there are, obviously, a number around Rosewood who have been identified as having contracted COVID-19, and, you know, devastatingly, of course, you’re seeing then the impact of that on a vulnerable community. And so when we saw those initial deaths, it’s, obviously, indicative of the fact that when it reaches those vulnerable communities, it is devastating. But there were a number who were positive. Media : Is it still the case, though, that, I guess—we spoke a couple of weeks back with you and you said it is possible that we’ll see more deaths. Is it still quite a—or have we passed the worst of it with this group of people, or is it still a really big concern? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, if you think about the unit in which the infection happened and the people who were transferred to Burwood, these are people with quite advanced underlying conditions anyway, and so we have seen further deaths, as I alluded to might happen, and there may well be others. As with the death today, even when there isn’t a positive test, as there was in this case, we are being inclusive to make sure we are capturing any death that could be COVID-19 - related. But this is the group that is the most vulnerable and tends to have the worst outcomes from this infection. Media : How common is it that we get these negative tests? We haven’t, kind of, heard about that too much before. PM : We talked a little bit in the beginning about it. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I think right from the start we’ve talked about the fact, and that’s one of the reasons that we are thoughtful about when we’re using testing, because a negative test in—for example, you know, sometimes we’ve seen cases that are still classified as probable even though they may have had repeated negative swabs. And that doesn’t reflect a problem with the testing; it, I think, underscores our inclusive approach for making sure we are capturing and treating any probable cases as if they were a case, and acting accordingly. Media : Prime Minister, you mentioned yesterday that provided that they collaborate with police and operate appropriately, that these largely iwi-based checkpoints—that you’re OK with them. When we move to level 3, will you still be comfortable with these checkpoints operating? PM : Yeah, to the degree that they are working with civil defence and police, because, keeping in mind, it is only the police and civil defence who are lawfully able to stop people. And so I’m comfortable with the message I’ve received from the police that they’re working well with communities on the ground where some of these checkpoints have existed to make sure that they are operating within the law and with the best interests of the community at heart. Media : And to you, Dr Bloomfield, people have approached us—people in the Māori community have approached us—asking why there isn’t data on ethnicity testing by region. Why is that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We just haven’t done the analysis, but we can provide that. We’ve provided an updated analysis in the last few days by ethnicity and by region, and we can go further and do the breakdown by region—acknowledging that in some of the regions, the numbers are relatively small, so there will be maybe small numbers in some of those groups. But yes, we’re happy to do that. Media : So, continuing on with that then, and publishing those and making those publicly available—that is in the works, then, and if so, when might that happen? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It can be done, because when we publish those laboratory data, we are linking them to the NHI number. Now, we don’t get a 100 percent match, but we get a 96 percent match, and then the NHI carries information about age, ethnicity, and so on. And the ethnicity is prioritised, so it has Māori prioritised. So we can do that. I’ll talk to the team when I get back there today. Media : Prime Minister, should New Zealanders be able to get a refund from Air New Zealand rather than just credit for cancelled flights—particularly those who are now in hardship? PM : That’s not something I’ve had raised with me, so a bit difficult for me to make a statement off the cuff. I’m sure Air New Zealand have been doing some work around, you know, what is fair under these current circumstances. If you wouldn’t mind, I wouldn’t mind taking a look at the issue before just giving you a response. Media : Do you think it would be fair for Air New Zealand to tell people they’re not entitled to a refund or a credit because their flight is still departing? PM : Sorry, is it reasonable for them to say that they’ve—I mean, look, it’s obvious to people that many of the flights in question are not still departing. Media : But if they are still departing—Air New Zealand has in some cases said no refund, no credit, they could be still going. PM : Yeah, again, I would want to just go and look at some of the circumstances under which this is being applied. We are asking people, though, to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I know that there will be many people who will have trips booked that just aren’t possible to undertake now. So if you would allow me just go and have a look at some of the policies that have been released on that front. Media : We’re getting reports of elderly people who are spending unnecessarily long amounts of time in hospital because hospitals won’t test for asymptomatic patients but the rest homes won’t allow them to return until they’ve had the test. So can you clear that up and give some clarity on what the situation is? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, and I spoke to this at some length yesterday. So we’ve had, and are having, ongoing discussions with the Aged Care Association. What we agree on and what happens is any older person who’s going into residential care, or is returning because they’ve been in hospital, who is symptomatic—and there’s a low threshold for testing—is tested, and anyone who is positive does not go back until they have recovered and have clinically been determined to have recovered. But every resident going in or returning goes into 14 days of self-isolation and is tested if they develop symptoms. And the whole point of that 14-day period is that if they did have COVID-19 and had been exposed—I should say, if there is any history of exposure, they are also tested, symptomatic or not. However, the advice of a range of professionals, including, you may have seen yesterday, the New Zealand Microbiology Network, is that routine testing is not helpful because it is a point in time in asymptomatic people. And this goes to the point I made earlier on that, actually, even when we think someone is a probable case with a clear history of exposure, the test can still be negative, so we do not think routine testing is indicated. Media : Germany is making face masks compulsory in public, and Auckland Transport’s asking passengers, under level 3, to wear them on buses and trains. Where is the consideration at for whether New Zealand will see these sorts of measures under alert level 3 and 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So, at this point, we are not recommending people use face masks routinely. We don’t think it is an important part of our overall measures. The most important parts are the physical distancing and hygiene and other safety measures, and, of course, maintaining the bubbles—that’s the really critical thing. This morning, actually, quite early, myself and colleagues were on a call with our British counterparts to share experiences, and this was one of the issues raised. Like us, they are carefully watching the evidence, and, as their chief medical officer has said, you can find very high-level specialists on both sides of the argument. So, again, I think if people want to wear a mask, they should—they should know how to use it—but we don’t think at this point there is any indication for routine use of masks in public. PM : What I do just want to urge is that it is no substitute for social distancing, so when it comes to public transport, we will still ask people to try and keep their distance, keep seats free, sit further back from other people if they’re able—all of those basic measures we’re asking people to maintain all the way through these alert levels. Media : On the masks, isn’t it wise that we err on the side of caution while evidence is still being evaluated? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At this point, again, we don’t think that that’s the important thing; the important thing is where we have emphasised our key messages—and those have served us well to date and will continue to. If people want to use a mask, they can, but they should know how to use it, recalling again that there are disadvantages of using masks as well as possible advantages. PM : Dr Bloomfield, would you mind expanding on the correct use and disadvantages of use as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the correct use depends on the type of mask, but it is very important that you put it on and keep your hands away from your nose and mouth, and they usually hook behind the ears. The challenge then, and as we have all found, is we tend to unconsciously put our hands up to our face, and often if you’re not used to wearing a mask—for example, you don’t spend day after day in an operating theatre—the tendency is to then keep putting your hands to your face. And when the mask is wet, including as we have seen recently down in Burwood—when the mask is wet, then it can transmit viruses, including COVID-19. So the key point here is meticulous hand hygiene and, of course, most importantly, not going out if you’re unwell. Media : Dr Bloomfield, some private hospitals have raised concerns that they’re not being reimbursed for staying open at full capacity during level 4 lockdown. They’ve cancelled electives, obviously, and lost a lot of income. Is there progress being made to reimburse them for that, or will they be out of pocket? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, there are. Prime Minister, did you want to talk to that, because I know Cabinet has looked at—we certainly have been having active discussions with private hospitals, because we were keen to see that that capacity, should it have been needed during this period, if our number of cases had gone up, and so we’ve been in active discussion, and we have asked each district health board to get in place an arrangement with their private hospitals in their areas. Media : So they won’t be [ Inaudible ], essentially? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That will be a discussion, yes. PM : One thing I should just—as a general principle for our health professionals and those who are working within the health sector, and this includes in primary healthcare, is that we haven’t made moves to reimburse lost revenue, because there are businesses around the country who have lost revenue during the response to COVID-19. What Cabinet has been very careful around is making sure where people have incurred COVID-related costs—and that’s been something that we’ve responded to for our GPs, for instance, with the fact that they may be doing consultations online or over the phone and haven’t been able to collect fees for that, or where they’ve been undertaking testing, we wanted to make sure there was nothing that stopped them from undertaking testing, for instance, for a returning non-resident or the like. That’s where we’ve been wanting to make sure we’re covering those costs, but there are many who have lost revenue during this period and it’s not just in the health sector. Media : Prime Minister, the Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, is pushing for the World Health Organization or another executive body to have inspection powers to be able to enter countries and trace the source of outbreaks. Have you had any recent discussions with your Australian counterpart? Has he raised this idea with you? PM : No, that’s not something we’ve specifically discussed. Media : Would you be open to this idea or to hear more about it? PM : You will have heard me share yesterday just the general principle that, of course, I think the entire globe will wish to learn from the experience that we’re all in the middle of right now—and we, of course, in New Zealand would be very open to that. There are things that all of us, of course, want to make sure that we’ve learnt, and particularly from best practice. But also that includes the speed at the beginning of outbreaks and also determining source. So I think we’re open to that but that, again, isn’t something we’ve been particularly at the forefront of. Media : Prime Minister, the Kōhanga Reo National Trust has advised all kōhanga reo to be closed during the level 3 lockdown. Do you support that? PM : Actually, I’ve seen kōhanga reo but also some from within the ECE provision who are making decisions based on what they see as the best interests for their personal workforce and their community, and we trust them to make those decisions. Of course, our overarching message is still if you can work and learn from home, you should work and learn from home—and that also includes our children and young people. What we’re wanting to make sure, though, that there is provision for those who are unable to do that but that that can be done safely within ECEs. Media : [ Inaudible ] aware the Government has ruled out using [ Inaudible ] technology, and what type of technology they were offering? PM : My understanding is there is no current work under way in that regard and no plans to. Media : What percentage of children are you expecting back at school next week? PM : Look, at the moment we don’t have anything definitive to give us a sense of numbers. I’ve only heard anecdotal feedback from the likes of some high schools and primary schools but very small numbers. But from what I’ve heard, the numbers that are registering for return are relatively small. But that is anecdotal. Media : Given the health Minister has now ordered a rapid audit of DHBs’ PPE distribution and the Auditor-General is investigating, are you still willing to state, as you’ve done before, that we have really good distribution systems? PM : We’ve said we’ve had good provision and good stocks. We’ve always been wanting to make sure that we have distribution performing at the level we expect right now. One of the areas where we think that there has been a need to improve has been from within DHBs sent out into those community health providers. That’s particularly where the Minister of Health is focused with this audit. Media : Some economists are saying that helicopter payments, one-off cash payments, to Kiwis would help stimulate the economy. Is that something the Government is seriously looking at? PM : Look, what we’ve been very careful around is just acknowledging that we’re at a point in the process where we are working through the range of options for making sure that we’re continuing to help our economy to recover, and, of course, the first, best example of that has been the speed of the wage subsidy programme. The Minister of Finance has also been very quick to point out that we’ve got to make sure that what we do works. There are certain points in a recovery where payments like that aren’t necessarily successful or create the stimulus you want. But we haven’t ruled things in or out at this stage; we are focused, though, on doing what will help our economy recover the fastest. Media : [ Inaudible ]? PM : Again, we haven’t ruled anything in or out, but we are focused on what is going to have the biggest effect in terms of supporting people’s livelihoods and getting our economy recovering. Media : Just to follow up, your commentary, then, sort of pointed out, perhaps, some of the problems with a universal payment. Are you saying that you don’t think it is necessarily the most effective way to stimulate the economy? PM : No, no. At this point, I’m actually not saying anything specific at all, because we are wanting to work through all of the options that are available when it comes to stimulating the economy and ensuring our economy can recover quickly. You would absolutely understand, though, why something like helicopter payments at level 4 aren’t especially successful. Media : Will you continue these daily press briefings when we go into level 3, and what will be the plan going into level 2? PM : I expect that we will change up the schedule a bit at level 3, in part because, of course, the House will be returning, and before everyone—well, not everyone; before some additional New Zealanders started tuning into press conferences daily, you’ll, of course, recall that I had one with you before Parliament or the House sat on sitting days. So I imagine we’ll return to a bit of a routine— Media : And do you think these daily press conferences have been helpful for New Zealanders that have been isolated at home? PM : That’s probably for New Zealanders to answer rather than me. Media : Your broadcasting and communications Minister said that he wanted to be ambitious with the second tranche of the media support— PM : That he wanted—sorry? Media : To be ambitious with the second tranche of the media support package. Do you expect that the second tranche will dwarf the first? PM : Oh, well, I do think that we shouldn’t diminish or trivialise a $50 million investment in supporting broadcasting and the media, print journalism—things that people have been relying on but have been hit hard by COVID-19. This first package, though—and acknowledging that your industry is only the third, really, to experience direct investment through COVID-19—this is very much focused on something we can do immediately to provide immediate support. What we need to do beyond that is actually work on some longer-term options. Media : Have there been any confirmed cases of COVID-19 related to the 250 seasonal workers? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, not at this point. However, what we are doing in Te Puke is one of our cases there has an association with—well, it doesn’t interact directly, but is involved with one of the hostels here for kiwifruit workers, and we felt it was important to actually test all of them, and I’ve just spoken this morning with the medical officer of health up there, and that testing is happening apace and will be completed by early afternoon. Media : Why have they not been held in isolation until those tests come back? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, there’s nothing to suggest there’s any problem there, and, of course, they are, in a sense, in a big bubble, and that has been maintained through alert level 4. We’re taking a precautionary approach here in testing them all. So I’ll let you know the results of that testing when we have it, which will probably be, at least some of it, tomorrow. Media : Our contact tracing teams—will they be able to handle a move to level 2 when our bubbles get much bigger? PM : Yes. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Absolutely. PM : You’ll see that we’ve boosted their capacity so that they can make 5,000 calls a day, and then we’ve gone even further to ensure they’ve got surge capacity—up to 10,000 calls a day—to help support contact tracing. That’s in addition to the cases that our local health teams are already able to manage. So surge capacity is there and it’s ready, and we’ll continue to invest in our public health units to make sure that we get that gold standard we want. Media : Is the principle behind Radio New Zealand getting funding there just the Oprah principle—you know, “You get a prize, you get a prize, you get a prize.”— PM : No, it’s not. Media : Is there any intention as to provide, perhaps, some more financial support for those businesses who are not able to open under level 3? PM : As the Minister of Finance has said, that we have been constantly reviewing what’s happening for specific businesses, the impacts of specific alert levels. So the wage subsidy, the tax changes have been particularly focused on those businesses who may have struggled with some of the short-term but immediate impacts on their cash flow. Now we’re looking beyond and looking at what specific sectors and businesses may continue to be impacted at level 3 in ways that others are not. So that’s part of just our ongoing COVID review to make sure that we are responding as quickly as we can to some of the need we see. I have no announcements to make on that today, but it is a constant piece of work that we do. Media : There’s been a suggestion at the Epidemic Response Committee that one way of stimulating the construction industry would be allowing overseas billionaires to purchase land here and inject $5 million, $10 million into construction. Do you see any merit to that? PM : Do you know that philosophy has existed in New Zealand for a number of years, and it’s never been one that I’ve subscribed to or believe actually achieves what people claim it does. Media : Do you have any update on recent community transmission cases? How long has it been since we had a new one? You said there were two yesterday and they weren’t recent onset cases. Has it been a long length of time since we had any new ones, and what does that say about how close we are to elimination? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So my team’s gone back through every case since 1 April to narrow down the ones where it’s not entirely clear where the source was. We were down to seven yesterday, and of those, even though they were classified as community transmission, it was quite clear where the person had been infected or the route back to infection, which was pre-lockdown. So we’re down to just a couple where it’s not necessarily clear, and those we may never know. But the important thing is—and one of those is actually the Te Puke one. So that’s why we are doing that wide testing around it, just to make sure, first of all, that there’s not COVID-19 that the person has caught it from from the wider group, but also to make sure that it’s not been transferred on. There’s no reason to believe it is. And, in fact, the close contacts of that person have all tested negative, but we’re just being doubly sure. So we’re in a very good position. Media : But you can’t say how long it’s been since we’ve had a new one? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t say exactly, but we’ll find out that information and we’ll make it available. Media : Is it, essentially, just, like, two known chains of transmission that we haven’t broken that we know about? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think what this goes down to—and, again, some of these cases, even of the others in that seven, we don’t know what the exact link back was to. Of course, all our cases in New Zealand at some point have been imported. So if we were able to go back through manual means, we could find out where they came from. But one of the other things we’re doing is we are asking ESR to do the genome sequence on some of these to find out what other cases they are linked to and if they look exactly like the genome, for example, of the virus when it was in Iran or if it had come out of Europe or out of China, because there are very subtle differences. So we’re using ESR’s genotyping—sorry, genome sequencing capacity—to also provide insights. PM : So at the moment, sometimes—actually, just a small handful, really, in recent times, and even then you can get a hint of what may have happened, even if it’s difficult to pinpoint precisely what has happened. Media : Just a question for Dr Bloomfield— PM : Nice use of eye contact to direct the question. Media : Yeah, I finally realised who’s who. Dr Bloomfield, just in regards to improving the capacity of contact tracing—the capacity and timeliness—on Sunday, I think it was, you said you were confident that within a week we’d reach what you described as the gold standard. Is that target still going to be met by this weekend? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, we’re well on track—and the team, I’m expecting a further report from by the end of today. There are two key things happening this week. One is our ministry team is working apace with getting the information system up and even further developed, but I’ve also got folk out visiting several of the public health units to do a, I guess, needs analysis about what additional capacity they need, because, actually, the first recommendation in Dr Ayesha Verrall’s report was that the public health units need to be boosted. So we’re out there, and the funding’s been made available, and we want to make sure that they get the skills and people they need. Of course, we won’t be able to pop them in within a couple of days, but it means that over the coming weeks, we’ll be able to increase capacity out in our public health units as well. Media : So just to be clear, the gold standard is 80 percent—tracing 80 percent of close contacts within three days? PM : The KPIs of the Verrall report. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, that’s one of the key indicators, so that’s what we’re aiming to get to. It will continue to evolve and develop, but by the end of this week, we’re going to have a platform there to be able to do the sort of contact tracing we need to do. Media : GPs are telling us that anyone living in a crowded home or with a pre-existing health condition can be tested at community testing centres. Is that the case? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the community-based assessment centres are for people who have symptoms, and either they turn up themselves or are referred by a general practice or by Healthline. There’s no need for people to go in if they are asymptomatic just to get a test—for example, because of their living conditions. So saying, there is some widespread testing happening across a range of workforces and settings by our DHBs this week, and out in rural communities, and you’ve seen that reflected in the 6,400 tests that have been done, because, actually, the number of people with respiratory symptoms at the moment is, you know, almost record low, because we haven’t been transmitting these infections to each other. Media : We’re down to just three COVID-19 cases. Did the modelling that the Government have suggest that we’re never going to get back up to double digits again—basically, we’re here at single digits for the foreseeable? PM : There’s no such thing as never, because it all comes down to our behaviour from here, and that’s where that team of 5 million is so important. We do need to keep in mind all of the public health principles that we’ve been using and practising to date: washing your hands, keeping your distance, staying at home if you’re sick, getting a test if you’re symptomatic. Those will need to be with us for a long time. So there is no such thing as never. Media : Is part of the gold standard of contact tracing an end-to-end system where we can see the time line of when a case first had symptoms, when they were tested, when the result came back, and when the contacts were traced? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So it’s definitely an end-to-end system, and that’s what we are setting up, with a national view of that. We’re still working through the exact indicators, because—just for example, one of the ones you talked about was understanding exactly when the onset of symptoms was, and this can be quite tricky because often people will present several days or even a week down the track, and they can’t remember their exact onset of symptoms. So there are three key things we’re wanting to do: first of all, get New Zealanders to get tested as soon as they get symptoms, or seek advice about testing; secondly, get the test turnaround from swab to result as short as possible, and we know from our laboratory data that that’s getting very good; and the third bit—and this is the critical bit—is identify and contact any close contacts within the three days and get them into self-isolation, and tested if they need to be tested. So that’s the sort of end-to-end process—and then make sure that they are staying in self-isolation. So that’s the system we are setting up and want to be able to monitor and report on. PM : One of the things that’s really insightful from some of the reports we’ve been having, even in recent days: you can see that we may have a positive test, and then our teams from the PHUs are going in to try and identify where the origin of that case was and may then find that, actually, it was someone else in the household who was first symptomatic, and that might’ve been some time ago. And so even when we’re producing—we might then test them or list them as a probable case. That data, then, won’t be a fair representation of the speed of our contact tracing, because that person never presented and was only identified through the work that those PHUs are doing. So I think it’s just important to keep some of that in mind. It’s not necessarily always a linear process. Sometimes, we’re going back and identifying other cases as part of that investigatory work. But the fact that we can come down and tell you within a couple of hours of the cases that we’ve had that day—what we know of where they’ve come from—tells you that our PHUs are working very, very quickly. Media : Isn’t the visibility across that system, from infection to contact—to have that in one system and having that visible is critical to ring-fencing that whole chain of transmission— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s where we want to be, but as the Prime Minister said, actually, our public health units are very effective at doing this. This is their core business. And so this will help us have a national view, and particularly, as we have had, where we’ve got clusters where there are people across the country, that’s very important. But our public health units are very good at finding people and then getting them isolated and ring-fencing, and they do this very effectively. And that’s been a good part of why we have been able, also, to be in the position we’re in now. Media : How prepared are you for a second wave of COVID-19 in New Zealand, like what’s happened overseas? PM : We’re doing everything we can to prevent New Zealand experiencing the second wave that we have seen in other countries, and that’s why we’re moving slowly, cautiously, confidently down through our alert level system. At the same time, we’re very prepared, we’re taking nothing for granted, but I’m confident, with the path that we’ve carved ourselves, we should prevent New Zealand having that experience. Media : Apologies if this has already been asked, but how many of those probable cases have returned negative tests? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Of all the probable cases? Well— Media : [ Inaudible ] proportion, yeah. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, well, by definition, a probable case is one that does return a negative test but the sense is, given the clinical picture and the epidemiological link, that this is a probable case and it is treated and managed as if it was a case. Media : So none of those probable cases have not been tested, and we’re just assuming they— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, some of them are not tested—for example, where it might be a child and the symptoms were some time ago. The challenge of doing a nasal swab—it’s not that pleasant—and also the likelihood of getting a positive test is low, but, to be inclusive, we’re including them in our probable cases. PM : We did have, for instance, an example of one of the patients in one of the aged-care facilities whose family didn’t wish for them to be tested but we still considered probable, so there will be cases like that. We’ll wrap up soon, so Ben and then I’ll come back over here. Media : Governments of the world are, obviously, encountering this huge incoming fiscal burden—you know, how to pay for all of the stimulus packages—and New Zealand is no exception. Speaking to people in the Pacific in developing countries, as I’ve done the last couple of weeks reporting on tropical cyclone Harold, lots of fears that foreign-aid budgets will be cut as a result of developed countries having less money—can you confirm whether this will be ring-fenced in terms of next Budget— PM : I’m not going to get ahead of the Budget, which will, obviously, be released not too far away, but what I would say is that New Zealand has always been mindful of our responsibility to particularly our Pacific Island neighbours, in times of hardship and in good times, and it’s no different for us now. What I would keep in mind is, actually, some of the aid projects that we would usually be engaged with haven’t been as easy to continue to roll out—it’s required entry into our Pacific neighbours, within their borders, which has been limited—so it does mean that we may be seeing some of the reorientation of support into areas of need where we can actually facilitate the investment of aid and development funding. Media : So funding levels should roughly be the same? PM : Again, I’m not going to get ahead of the Budget process, but you know from New Zealand’s values that when there is need, New Zealand does its bit. Media : Prime Minister, this is a non-COVID question. Where are negotiations at over Ihumātao—have they completely ground to a halt during this COVID response, or have there being ongoing talks that the Government’s been part of? PM : We certainly haven’t gone backwards, and you’ll remember that, actually, we were making very good progress before COVID-19 hit, and none of that progress has been lost. But as you can imagine, there hasn’t been the ability to bring any finality or closure to that at this time, just because, really, that face-to-face contact and our ability to facilitate some of those negotiations has been limited. OK, thanks everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 23 April Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference, 3pm – 23 April
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference, 3pm – 23 April --- Section Separator --- Sarah Stuart-Black : Kia ora koutou. My name is Sarah Stuart-Black, and I’m joined today by Police Commissioner Andy Coster. The commissioner will give you a police update, and then I’ll provide you with an update about welfare and border matters, as well as the state of national emergency. Over to you, commissioner. Andrew Coster : Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, I have an update for you on enforcement figures, I have some statistics on crime trends over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown, and I wish to share with you the police plans for enforcement of the alert level 3 restrictions. I wish to congratulate New Zealanders on the way they’ve responded to this unique situation. The vast majority of New Zealanders have been law-abiding, they have played their part, and they have heeded the restrictions. So thank you to those who have done what was asked of you. The breaches recorded by us represent just a small minority of the population. Since COVID-19 alert level 4, Police has recorded 4,452 breaches of CDEM or Health Act—423 of these were in the past 24 hours—477 prosecutions, 3,844 warnings, 131 youth referrals. We’ve conducted 2,989 reassurance checks at essential facilities from the period 20 to 22 April. Over the same period, 3,144 patrols were completed. We have recorded more than 55,000 reports from the public about breaches; 1,535 of those in the last 24 hours. As we move towards alert level 3, it’s important to note that police will continue to enforce the level 4 restrictions until 11.59 p.m. on Monday night. The sacrifices we have all made have made a real difference, and we must not get complacent. Right now, we are still at alert level 4, and that means we all need to stay home and save lives. For the next five days, we all need to continue sticking to the rules. That means staying at home, only undertaking essential travel, and keeping it local. Ahead of Anzac weekend, I want to remind everyone that the alert level 4 restrictions still stand. This is not a time for complacency. Over the long weekend, you need to continue to stay in your bubble and stay local. Don’t travel to your bach; stay in your neighbourhood. Similar to what has happened over Easter, police will be highly visible in communities over Anzac weekend, and this will include operating road checkpoints, making sure people are safe and complying with the COVID-19 alert level 4 restrictions. Any travel over Anzac weekend should be for essential purposes only. If you are planning to travel to your beach or visit friends or family, you need to change your plans and stay home. Officers will be visible in our communities and on the roads, including around popular holiday spots and on the arterial roads to them, to make sure people are aware of the requirement that everyone in New Zealand needs to stay in their current place of residence while level 4 restrictions are in place. Everyone needs to play their part this Anzac weekend: stick to the rules and stay home within their bubble and keep themselves and their communities safe. Under alert level 3, police will continue to be highly visible in our communities and on our roads to maintain public safety, security, and order. We’ll continue to take an education-first approach and urge all New Zealanders to familiarise themselves with the updated restrictions ahead of the change, which, effectively, come into force on Tuesday. Police recognise there will be a period of adjustment, just as there was with alert level 4; however, where we need to take enforcement action, either through warnings or arrests, we will do so for any serious or persistent breaches. While alert level 3 is likely to see more traffic and activity on the roads, expect police to be visible and question whether travel is permitted under the new alert level. Reassurance checks will continue to be an important part of our work, and we will have a particular focus on large gatherings. No matter what alert level we are in, Police’s focus will remain on supporting New Zealanders and making sure they are safe, protected, and informed. This afternoon, we have issued a release outlining our approach to COVID-19 checkpoints which have been introduced by some communities where they felt they were particularly at risk. We understand that some small and isolated communities feel they have a particular vulnerability to COVID-19. Police is committed to ensuring our communities are safe and feel safe, but we do not encourage community checkpoints. Where communities have determined to undertake checkpoints to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Police is working with those communities and other agencies to ensure checkpoints are safe and not preventing lawful use of the road. Working in partnership with the local authority, the local civil defence emergency manager, local iwi, community groups, and police, we will assess whether checkpoints will persist or if there are other solutions. If COVID-19 checkpoints for vulnerable communities are to persist for the overall safety and wellbeing of a community, they will be operated by district police alongside community members. We will be conducting those in a safe manner, according to police operational guidelines and practices. We’ll be guided by the relevant alert level status as set out in the Government’s COVID-19 response. We will not restrict access for people moving through for legitimate purposes. We recognise that community efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19 are motivated in the interests of the wider community; however, police must protect people’s fundamental right to freedom of movement around their region for legitimate purposes. We’ll continue to work with those communities and local agencies in alert level 3 and 4 to understand their concerns and needs, and we do not envisage a need for COVID-19 checkpoints to operate at alert level 2. Crime trends—over the course of the alert level 4 lockdown, we’ve seen a decrease in crime across areas such as road policing, theft, burglary, and assaults. In comparison to a similar period last year, front-line staff have seen a 57 percent decrease in road policing activity, a 42 percent fall in theft and burglary reports, and a 26 percent drop in assaults. This is likely due to a number of factors, such as highly visible police presence in communities across the country, lower traffic volumes, and the fact suspicious behaviour will stand out more with fewer people around. For the first few days of the alert level 4 restrictions, there was a 24 percent rise in family harm - related events; however, the number has stabilised to similar levels to last year by now. This is an area where we have been focusing on prioritising, and we do urge anyone who seeks safety from a family harm situation to call 111. Over the last four weeks, calls for mental health or attempted suicide - related incidents have remained steady, with no significant spike or decline. We have completed tens of thousands of high-visibility reassurance checks and patrols across country in combination with day-to-day police work. At this time, we are encouraging everyone to be vigilant as they carry out their essential activities and, if they see anything suspicious, to report it to police. Thank you. Sarah Stuart-Black : We know that a significant number of New Zealanders are finding things emotionally or financially tough. In the past three weeks, there have been more than 1,700 calls to Need to Talk? mental health line, and approximately 17 percent of callers to the mental health lines are showing severe distress. People are worried about moving out of level 4 and anxious about new arrivals into the country affecting their communities. Last Saturday, 18 April, nearly 5,300 calls were managed by the National Telehealth Service for remote medical consultations, compared to 798 on the same day last year. The Ministry of Social Development continues to process unprecedented levels of applications, calls, appointments, and online traffic. In the past month, just under half a million applications for wage and leave subsidies have been received. More than 400,000 of these have been approved, supporting 1.6 million people and paying more than $10 billion. Since alert level 4 restrictions began, civil defence emergency management groups have made more than 18,000 outreach telephone calls to vulnerable groups. As noted by the Prime Minister earlier, they’ve also worked with community groups, distributing tens of thousands of food parcels to those in need. Yesterday’s $30 million announcement by the Government will give further civil defence emergency management groups and local authorities the flexibility to provide more help to those that need it. I’d personally like to recognise the efforts of mayors, civil defence emergency management group controllers and officials, welfare agencies, NGOs, volunteers, council staff, and everyone else who has had a hand in making these vital front-line support arrangements happen. It’s been a real team effort. Through E Tū Whānau, MSD have processed payments for 30 groups totalling over $750,000. The groups have ranged from iwi organisations to small local groups who’ve reached out to isolated community members. Pasifika Futures’ partner agencies report that they’ve provided over 7,497 families, which is over 40,000 individuals, with family support packages, which includes household items, food, and petrol vouchers. More than 40,000 New Zealanders over the age of 70 have been contacted as part of an MSD-coordinated community outreach targeting older people living alone. Ninety-five people over 100 years have been contacted, and around 6,000 have been contacted aged over 90, just to give you an idea of the quantum. More than 1,000 rough sleepers have been put up in motels and connected to social services, and the Government’s temporary accommodation service has also helped over 400 people into temporary accommodation. Migrant workers in previously heavy tourism areas are a group that we’re watching closely. Given that they’re not entitled to Government benefits, they’re receiving food, accommodation support, and other support from their local civil defence emergency management group. As of 19 April, the National Crisis Management Centre has approved around 2,000 travel requests on compassionate grounds. The majority of the approvals were for repatriation around the country of people who had finished their period of mandatory isolation after arriving back into New Zealand. All travellers entering New Zealand since 10 April have been required to either go into managed isolation in a Government-provided facility—that is, a hotel—or, if they have COVID-19 symptoms, to go into a quarantine facility, which is a separate hotel. They must stay there for at least 14 days. This will prevent any further unmanaged COVID-19 infection coming into New Zealand. There are currently 2,307 people in managed isolation and 104 people in quarantine. Since 26 March, 42,901 foreign nationals have departed New Zealand. Of those, 27,427 people departed on commercial flights and 15,474 departed on charter flights. A charter flight to France departed New Zealand on the evening of 21 April. Five chartered flights from New Zealand to the UK and one to Thailand have been approved for travel between 24 April and 2 May, which will cater for approximately 2,000 people leaving the country. There may be up to six repatriation flights into New Zealand between now and 30 April, carrying a combined total of approximately 1,200 people. Repatriation flights from 22 to 30 April are scheduled from Fiji; USA; Tonga; Bangladesh, via Singapore; Samoa; Rarotonga; India; with a flight from Thailand yet to be confirmed. More than 1,250 expressions of interest were received from New Zealanders in India seeking repatriation. The first flight is expected to leave New Delhi on 24 April, arriving at Christchurch on 27 April at 2300 hours, 11 o’clock at night. In Auckland there are 11 managed isolation hotels, expanding to 12 by 25 April, and one quarantine hotel. There are also hotels on standby when and if needed for them in Christchurch and in Wellington. The majority of flights are landing in Auckland, though Christchurch will take passengers from 27 April and Wellington is preparing to take passengers should that be needed. The process that is being implemented in Auckland will be replicated if flights land in those other locations. I’d like to finish by touching on the state of national emergency. On Tuesday, the Minister of Civil Defence extended the state of national emergency to support the COVID-19 response, for the fourth time. The initial declaration was made on 25 March, and the seven-day declaration can be extended as many times as necessary. It does not change the COVID-19 alert level. As we prepare to move to level 3 next Tuesday, it’s important that we continue to have access to the powers that are activated through the state of national emergency to provide the help to us to maintain that level of success that we have seen to date in making progress towards stopping COVID-19 spreading in our communities. The powers activated by the state of national emergency enable critical work to be carried out during this time, including managing roads, traffic, public places, providing first aid, food, shelter, and accommodation. The use of these powers during COVID-19 has included authorising local councils to restrict vehicle access to roads or streets to support social distancing, directing freedom campers to relocate, requisitioning a carpark for COVID-19 testing, stopping people from lighting outdoor fires to reduce the risk of fire-related emergencies, and allowing necessary maintenance to happen at a waste-water treatment plant. Finally, I’d like to say thank you to all 5 million of you. Everybody in New Zealand has made tremendous sacrifices to save lives and to stop the spread of COVID-19, and your sacrifice is paying off. While we’re going down to level 3—and that will be a relief to many—the restrictions are still stringent, and for very good reason. We’re not out of the woods by any measure, but, if you’re struggling for whatever reason, there is help available, so please do reach out. Thank you, and we’re now happy to take any questions. Media : Commissioner Coster, do you think Kiwis are becoming more lax—400 warnings given out in the last 24 hours? Andrew Coster : We need to bear in mind that our approach to enforcement does have a bit of a bearing on how many breaches are recorded. It’s fair to say there has been more activity in recent days. However, there has been permission for people to move to go and set up ready for level 3 in terms of businesses. Overall, the compliance level has been good. Media : Over Easter weekend, for example, we saw a really heavy police presence. Will we see that same level of presence over Anzac weekend or even more police out? Andrew Coster : Police will be adopting a very similar deployment approach to what we did at Easter, which is focusing on holiday spots on arterial routes, to ensure that people are abiding by the level 4 controls that will still be in place. Media : Is it plausible that people who have said, listen, they thought we were in level 3 now, or they’re getting confused between the levels—is that a plausible excuse? Andrew Coster : It’s very clear the level 4 controls are still in place. Even under level 3, the limitations on personal movement remain fairly significant—movement for essential purposes, movement for recreation, greater access to businesses. But, fundamentally, we are still going to be operating with limits. Media : What would be your message to people who, sort of, say “What’s the difference of a couple of days, if I start acting like I’m in level 3 this weekend versus doing it on Tuesday?” Andrew Coster : The difference is, obviously, firstly, level 4 controls are still in place, so the controls are the controls. Under level 3, there will be more businesses open. There will be some people going to work because they are unable to work remotely. There will be some people attending education. So that movement will be permitted. The definition of essential movement is broader, and people are able to continue exercising and so on, as they are allowed to now. I would really encourage people, if they’re lacking clarity, to go to the COVID-19 website. It is very thorough. It covers the range of questions that might arise. Sarah Stuart-Black : I’d just like to say, fundamentally, every day makes a difference here. So by everyone doing their bit in all the way, stepping through this level 4 set of restrictions where we want people to stay home—every step of the way makes that difference. We don’t want to undermine the amazing sacrifices that people have made, and that’s what will happen if people don’t stick to the rules. So we really need for people to stay home, stay in your bubble for level 4, but also understanding, when we move to level 3, there’s a lot of restrictions still in place, for very good reason. We really want people to help us continue to move down through these levels, but it will take everybody doing their bit to make that work. Media : There might be quite a number of grey areas in level 3 compared to level 4—you know, bubbles are bigger, as you say, more businesses open, more schools open. Do you think that will be more difficult to enforce, and will people try to, you know, push the envelope there a bit and say, “Oh, I’m just visiting my allowed second bubble [ Inaudible ] Andrew Coster : We’ve needed a lot of common sense to be applied across all the levels, and, in terms of police’s enforcement, we will still start with education. The Prime Minister has referred to this being a high-trust model, and it is. This needs the vast majority of New Zealanders to do the right thing because it’s the right thing to do. Let’s not squander the amazing gains we’ve had so far by being really disciplined and everyone playing their part. Media : Do you expect people to, like, shell out excuses a lot more easier, for example, and say, “Look, I’m just—what I’m doing is totally fine.”, and how will you check those, I suppose? Andrew Coster : Police’s enforcement effort will be particularly focused on clear breaches of the guidelines—for example, gatherings in public places and movement that is clearly outside the realms of what’s normal. We will need the vast majority of people to abide by the restrictions because it’s the right thing to do. Media : Commissioner, what is your advice for hunters heading into level 3, and what will happen if they push those new boundaries in place? Andrew Coster : Advice for hunters? Media : Hunters—yeah. Andrew Coster : That announcement has just been made. I believe the terms of it are clear in terms of people remaining local. For hunting, it’s only on private property, and it will be pretty evident if people are straying outside of that. Media : What happens if they do stray outside and push those new rules in place? Andrew Coster : If people are clearly flouting the rules, then we will take enforcement action, as we have done today. Media : We’ve had reports—anecdotally, I should say—of an increase in the number of emergency service call-outs to mental health, suicide, and self-harm incidents. Firstly, have you noticed that increase, and, secondly, are all Government agencies prepared for an influx in mental health incidents and escalated concerns about that in the days after level 4? Andrew Coster : In terms of Police data on mental health or attempted suicide - related incidents, our demand has remained steady over the past four weeks. However, that doesn’t mean people aren’t struggling, and there’s evidence that people are reaching out to access services in order to get help. It’s very hard to predict what the coming weeks look like, and so we just remain very attuned to how that situation might change. Media : So just to clarify, you have not seen an increase? Andrew Coster : In Police data, we have not. Media : Commissioner Coster, on checkpoints there appeared to be some varied versions of how they’re working. Iwi, for example, across the country say they’ve been very successful, it’s very positive, though in recent days there have been some complaints. What has been the feedback to you from your team and from your officers about how these are working? Are they working well, and are they cooperating well? Andrew Coster : We’ve actively engaged with iwi and communities throughout this situation. A number of communities feeling a particular vulnerability early on in this crisis took it on themselves to establish checkpoints. We have not actively encouraged that. However, where communities have determined that that’s the vulnerability they feel, we’ve worked with them to ensure that lawful use of the road may continue. In this period approaching the transition for level 3, we are re-engaging with all of those groups to ascertain whether those checkpoints are appropriate and need to continue. And, if they are going to continue, then we will make sure there’s a police presence so that lawful movement may continue. Media : But has the feedback to you from your officers and from your team been positive or negative as to how these have been operating? Have they been operating OK from your perspective? Andrew Coster : We have looked into the incidents that have been referenced publicly, examples of potential problems, and inevitably we’ve found quite some discrepancies between what has been described and what actually occurred. Where there have been any problems of significant note, we have dealt with those very proactively. Media : Commissioner, it’s been reported that for the first two weeks of the lockdown there was a cafe operating at National Police Headquarters. So first of all, how could it be that for a fortnight the police were the only people in the country able to buy coffee, and, secondly, did you buy one? Andrew Coster : The initial advice that we—sorry, the operator at the cafe is a contractor to Police as an essential service, and the initial advice from the agency responsible for that was that that was a permitted activity in terms of helping to maintain the essential service that’s being conducted at Police National Headquarters. It is a closed provider of food and beverages. It does catering for Police and also for some other essential agencies. That service provider engaged more recently to double-check that they were allowed to operate, and that led to guidance that they should not operate the front-facing part of that, which was providing service to Police staff, and so they quickly moved to close down the front-facing operation, and, yes, I was a customer of the cafe along with other headquarters staff when the guidance was it was permitted. We have been told that that cafe may reopen as an essential service. However, we have asked all Police providers to adopt the controls that would be expected of any public-facing business, including contactless pick-up and that sort of thing, to ensure that we’re not in any way seen to be outside of the rules that are applying to everybody else. Media : Were those operators amongst the people who were warned or prosecuted? I’m guessing not. Andrew Coster : They were operating at all times within the official advice they had received, so there was no breach in that sense. Media : Director, you mentioned these, sort of, welfare checks that have been conducted for over-70s. How many welfare checks have been conducted for migrants on work visas? Do you have that number right now? Sarah Stuart-Black : I don’t have that detail, but what I understand is that there is outbound calling happening to migrant workers and international visitors to check whether or not their situation has changed and what support might be required by them. We’re also working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to connect to the embassies and consulates where that’s appropriate as well. Media : Has there been any consideration to issuing an emergency benefit for migrant workers? Sarah Stuart-Black : So there’s a range of support mechanisms that are available to all New Zealanders in terms of making sure—and visitors and migrant workers—to make sure that those basic needs are required. Benefits is a different thing. So part of the announcement that the Prime Minister talked to yesterday—sorry, that Minister Henare spoke to yesterday—was regarding additional support measures to make sure that those that might not be eligible for other types of support actually are provided with the financial support that they need when we’re in this period of response. Media : Director, what do you know about the private jet in Dunedin? Is that a repatriation flight? Sarah Stuart-Black : I’m sorry—I don’t have any information about that. I’ll look into it. Media : The prosecutions that we’ve seen, do you have a picture of the nature of those in terms of are they mostly fines that people are receiving and how many of them are people being jailed? Andrew Coster : That’s not so much for the Police. Once we have initiated a prosecution, then that goes into the courts system. So no; I’m not able to provide you with that information at this stage. Media : In addition to that, do you have a breakdown of what charges there were? Andrew Coster : We would be able to provide that. I don’t have that with me, but we will be able to. Media : On those migrant workers, are you able to make clear what help is practically available for them? Places like Queenstown are really, really struggling, calling it a refugee crisis, essentially. Sarah Stuart-Black : So a range of support is provided, including being able to provide those household items for people who might need them, support around rent and those kind of costs, but also other, sort of, support that might be required that might be about connecting people to the right services. So there’s a whole range of workers that might be in New Zealand with different visa requirements, different kind of restrictions on what they can do, and with a number of businesses that might’ve been directly impacted that are actually needing some advice along those lines as well. We can provide an update, certainly, on all of those different measures that are available, if that’s a helpful thing, after this. Media : Commissioner, regarding the checkpoints, if the checkpoints aren’t taken down and you have to provide a police presence, how many officers do you think you are likely to have to allocate to those checkpoints to keep an eye on them? Andrew Coster : It would only be a small presence that would be required for that purpose. We have considered the best way to approach the situation. We operate a prevention-first operating model in Police; that means we aim to take actions to resolve situations if at all possible. We’re mindful that an enforcement action here could escalate things rather than be helpful. We have a lot of empathy for the vulnerability felt by these communities, and we’re working through it with them. Sarah Stuart-Black : One more question. Media : As we move down the alert scale, do you anticipate—you know, eventually, obviously, the checkpoints will have to go. What level would you say that they should go, and— Andrew Coster : We don’t see any need for this kind of checkpoint operating at level 2, so we’re anticipating a transitional period and then that they would come to an end. Sarah Stuart-Black : Thank you. Thanks very much, everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Sarah Stuart-Black : Kia ora koutou. My name is Sarah Stuart-Black, and I’m joined today by Police Commissioner Andy Coster. The commissioner will give you a police update, and then I’ll provide you with an update about welfare and border matters, as well as the state of national emergency. Over to you, commissioner. Andrew Coster : Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, I have an update for you on enforcement figures, I have some statistics on crime trends over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown, and I wish to share with you the police plans for enforcement of the alert level 3 restrictions. I wish to congratulate New Zealanders on the way they’ve responded to this unique situation. The vast majority of New Zealanders have been law-abiding, they have played their part, and they have heeded the restrictions. So thank you to those who have done what was asked of you. The breaches recorded by us represent just a small minority of the population. Since COVID-19 alert level 4, Police has recorded 4,452 breaches of CDEM or Health Act—423 of these were in the past 24 hours—477 prosecutions, 3,844 warnings, 131 youth referrals. We’ve conducted 2,989 reassurance checks at essential facilities from the period 20 to 22 April. Over the same period, 3,144 patrols were completed. We have recorded more than 55,000 reports from the public about breaches; 1,535 of those in the last 24 hours. As we move towards alert level 3, it’s important to note that police will continue to enforce the level 4 restrictions until 11.59 p.m. on Monday night. The sacrifices we have all made have made a real difference, and we must not get complacent. Right now, we are still at alert level 4, and that means we all need to stay home and save lives. For the next five days, we all need to continue sticking to the rules. That means staying at home, only undertaking essential travel, and keeping it local. Ahead of Anzac weekend, I want to remind everyone that the alert level 4 restrictions still stand. This is not a time for complacency. Over the long weekend, you need to continue to stay in your bubble and stay local. Don’t travel to your bach; stay in your neighbourhood. Similar to what has happened over Easter, police will be highly visible in communities over Anzac weekend, and this will include operating road checkpoints, making sure people are safe and complying with the COVID-19 alert level 4 restrictions. Any travel over Anzac weekend should be for essential purposes only. If you are planning to travel to your beach or visit friends or family, you need to change your plans and stay home. Officers will be visible in our communities and on the roads, including around popular holiday spots and on the arterial roads to them, to make sure people are aware of the requirement that everyone in New Zealand needs to stay in their current place of residence while level 4 restrictions are in place. Everyone needs to play their part this Anzac weekend: stick to the rules and stay home within their bubble and keep themselves and their communities safe. Under alert level 3, police will continue to be highly visible in our communities and on our roads to maintain public safety, security, and order. We’ll continue to take an education-first approach and urge all New Zealanders to familiarise themselves with the updated restrictions ahead of the change, which, effectively, come into force on Tuesday. Police recognise there will be a period of adjustment, just as there was with alert level 4; however, where we need to take enforcement action, either through warnings or arrests, we will do so for any serious or persistent breaches. While alert level 3 is likely to see more traffic and activity on the roads, expect police to be visible and question whether travel is permitted under the new alert level. Reassurance checks will continue to be an important part of our work, and we will have a particular focus on large gatherings. No matter what alert level we are in, Police’s focus will remain on supporting New Zealanders and making sure they are safe, protected, and informed. This afternoon, we have issued a release outlining our approach to COVID-19 checkpoints which have been introduced by some communities where they felt they were particularly at risk. We understand that some small and isolated communities feel they have a particular vulnerability to COVID-19. Police is committed to ensuring our communities are safe and feel safe, but we do not encourage community checkpoints. Where communities have determined to undertake checkpoints to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Police is working with those communities and other agencies to ensure checkpoints are safe and not preventing lawful use of the road. Working in partnership with the local authority, the local civil defence emergency manager, local iwi, community groups, and police, we will assess whether checkpoints will persist or if there are other solutions. If COVID-19 checkpoints for vulnerable communities are to persist for the overall safety and wellbeing of a community, they will be operated by district police alongside community members. We will be conducting those in a safe manner, according to police operational guidelines and practices. We’ll be guided by the relevant alert level status as set out in the Government’s COVID-19 response. We will not restrict access for people moving through for legitimate purposes. We recognise that community efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19 are motivated in the interests of the wider community; however, police must protect people’s fundamental right to freedom of movement around their region for legitimate purposes. We’ll continue to work with those communities and local agencies in alert level 3 and 4 to understand their concerns and needs, and we do not envisage a need for COVID-19 checkpoints to operate at alert level 2. Crime trends—over the course of the alert level 4 lockdown, we’ve seen a decrease in crime across areas such as road policing, theft, burglary, and assaults. In comparison to a similar period last year, front-line staff have seen a 57 percent decrease in road policing activity, a 42 percent fall in theft and burglary reports, and a 26 percent drop in assaults. This is likely due to a number of factors, such as highly visible police presence in communities across the country, lower traffic volumes, and the fact suspicious behaviour will stand out more with fewer people around. For the first few days of the alert level 4 restrictions, there was a 24 percent rise in family harm - related events; however, the number has stabilised to similar levels to last year by now. This is an area where we have been focusing on prioritising, and we do urge anyone who seeks safety from a family harm situation to call 111. Over the last four weeks, calls for mental health or attempted suicide - related incidents have remained steady, with no significant spike or decline. We have completed tens of thousands of high-visibility reassurance checks and patrols across country in combination with day-to-day police work. At this time, we are encouraging everyone to be vigilant as they carry out their essential activities and, if they see anything suspicious, to report it to police. Thank you. Sarah Stuart-Black : We know that a significant number of New Zealanders are finding things emotionally or financially tough. In the past three weeks, there have been more than 1,700 calls to Need to Talk? mental health line, and approximately 17 percent of callers to the mental health lines are showing severe distress. People are worried about moving out of level 4 and anxious about new arrivals into the country affecting their communities. Last Saturday, 18 April, nearly 5,300 calls were managed by the National Telehealth Service for remote medical consultations, compared to 798 on the same day last year. The Ministry of Social Development continues to process unprecedented levels of applications, calls, appointments, and online traffic. In the past month, just under half a million applications for wage and leave subsidies have been received. More than 400,000 of these have been approved, supporting 1.6 million people and paying more than $10 billion. Since alert level 4 restrictions began, civil defence emergency management groups have made more than 18,000 outreach telephone calls to vulnerable groups. As noted by the Prime Minister earlier, they’ve also worked with community groups, distributing tens of thousands of food parcels to those in need. Yesterday’s $30 million announcement by the Government will give further civil defence emergency management groups and local authorities the flexibility to provide more help to those that need it. I’d personally like to recognise the efforts of mayors, civil defence emergency management group controllers and officials, welfare agencies, NGOs, volunteers, council staff, and everyone else who has had a hand in making these vital front-line support arrangements happen. It’s been a real team effort. Through E Tū Whānau, MSD have processed payments for 30 groups totalling over $750,000. The groups have ranged from iwi organisations to small local groups who’ve reached out to isolated community members. Pasifika Futures’ partner agencies report that they’ve provided over 7,497 families, which is over 40,000 individuals, with family support packages, which includes household items, food, and petrol vouchers. More than 40,000 New Zealanders over the age of 70 have been contacted as part of an MSD-coordinated community outreach targeting older people living alone. Ninety-five people over 100 years have been contacted, and around 6,000 have been contacted aged over 90, just to give you an idea of the quantum. More than 1,000 rough sleepers have been put up in motels and connected to social services, and the Government’s temporary accommodation service has also helped over 400 people into temporary accommodation. Migrant workers in previously heavy tourism areas are a group that we’re watching closely. Given that they’re not entitled to Government benefits, they’re receiving food, accommodation support, and other support from their local civil defence emergency management group. As of 19 April, the National Crisis Management Centre has approved around 2,000 travel requests on compassionate grounds. The majority of the approvals were for repatriation around the country of people who had finished their period of mandatory isolation after arriving back into New Zealand. All travellers entering New Zealand since 10 April have been required to either go into managed isolation in a Government-provided facility—that is, a hotel—or, if they have COVID-19 symptoms, to go into a quarantine facility, which is a separate hotel. They must stay there for at least 14 days. This will prevent any further unmanaged COVID-19 infection coming into New Zealand. There are currently 2,307 people in managed isolation and 104 people in quarantine. Since 26 March, 42,901 foreign nationals have departed New Zealand. Of those, 27,427 people departed on commercial flights and 15,474 departed on charter flights. A charter flight to France departed New Zealand on the evening of 21 April. Five chartered flights from New Zealand to the UK and one to Thailand have been approved for travel between 24 April and 2 May, which will cater for approximately 2,000 people leaving the country. There may be up to six repatriation flights into New Zealand between now and 30 April, carrying a combined total of approximately 1,200 people. Repatriation flights from 22 to 30 April are scheduled from Fiji; USA; Tonga; Bangladesh, via Singapore; Samoa; Rarotonga; India; with a flight from Thailand yet to be confirmed. More than 1,250 expressions of interest were received from New Zealanders in India seeking repatriation. The first flight is expected to leave New Delhi on 24 April, arriving at Christchurch on 27 April at 2300 hours, 11 o’clock at night. In Auckland there are 11 managed isolation hotels, expanding to 12 by 25 April, and one quarantine hotel. There are also hotels on standby when and if needed for them in Christchurch and in Wellington. The majority of flights are landing in Auckland, though Christchurch will take passengers from 27 April and Wellington is preparing to take passengers should that be needed. The process that is being implemented in Auckland will be replicated if flights land in those other locations. I’d like to finish by touching on the state of national emergency. On Tuesday, the Minister of Civil Defence extended the state of national emergency to support the COVID-19 response, for the fourth time. The initial declaration was made on 25 March, and the seven-day declaration can be extended as many times as necessary. It does not change the COVID-19 alert level. As we prepare to move to level 3 next Tuesday, it’s important that we continue to have access to the powers that are activated through the state of national emergency to provide the help to us to maintain that level of success that we have seen to date in making progress towards stopping COVID-19 spreading in our communities. The powers activated by the state of national emergency enable critical work to be carried out during this time, including managing roads, traffic, public places, providing first aid, food, shelter, and accommodation. The use of these powers during COVID-19 has included authorising local councils to restrict vehicle access to roads or streets to support social distancing, directing freedom campers to relocate, requisitioning a carpark for COVID-19 testing, stopping people from lighting outdoor fires to reduce the risk of fire-related emergencies, and allowing necessary maintenance to happen at a waste-water treatment plant. Finally, I’d like to say thank you to all 5 million of you. Everybody in New Zealand has made tremendous sacrifices to save lives and to stop the spread of COVID-19, and your sacrifice is paying off. While we’re going down to level 3—and that will be a relief to many—the restrictions are still stringent, and for very good reason. We’re not out of the woods by any measure, but, if you’re struggling for whatever reason, there is help available, so please do reach out. Thank you, and we’re now happy to take any questions. Media : Commissioner Coster, do you think Kiwis are becoming more lax—400 warnings given out in the last 24 hours? Andrew Coster : We need to bear in mind that our approach to enforcement does have a bit of a bearing on how many breaches are recorded. It’s fair to say there has been more activity in recent days. However, there has been permission for people to move to go and set up ready for level 3 in terms of businesses. Overall, the compliance level has been good. Media : Over Easter weekend, for example, we saw a really heavy police presence. Will we see that same level of presence over Anzac weekend or even more police out? Andrew Coster : Police will be adopting a very similar deployment approach to what we did at Easter, which is focusing on holiday spots on arterial routes, to ensure that people are abiding by the level 4 controls that will still be in place. Media : Is it plausible that people who have said, listen, they thought we were in level 3 now, or they’re getting confused between the levels—is that a plausible excuse? Andrew Coster : It’s very clear the level 4 controls are still in place. Even under level 3, the limitations on personal movement remain fairly significant—movement for essential purposes, movement for recreation, greater access to businesses. But, fundamentally, we are still going to be operating with limits. Media : What would be your message to people who, sort of, say “What’s the difference of a couple of days, if I start acting like I’m in level 3 this weekend versus doing it on Tuesday?” Andrew Coster : The difference is, obviously, firstly, level 4 controls are still in place, so the controls are the controls. Under level 3, there will be more businesses open. There will be some people going to work because they are unable to work remotely. There will be some people attending education. So that movement will be permitted. The definition of essential movement is broader, and people are able to continue exercising and so on, as they are allowed to now. I would really encourage people, if they’re lacking clarity, to go to the COVID-19 website. It is very thorough. It covers the range of questions that might arise. Sarah Stuart-Black : I’d just like to say, fundamentally, every day makes a difference here. So by everyone doing their bit in all the way, stepping through this level 4 set of restrictions where we want people to stay home—every step of the way makes that difference. We don’t want to undermine the amazing sacrifices that people have made, and that’s what will happen if people don’t stick to the rules. So we really need for people to stay home, stay in your bubble for level 4, but also understanding, when we move to level 3, there’s a lot of restrictions still in place, for very good reason. We really want people to help us continue to move down through these levels, but it will take everybody doing their bit to make that work. Media : There might be quite a number of grey areas in level 3 compared to level 4—you know, bubbles are bigger, as you say, more businesses open, more schools open. Do you think that will be more difficult to enforce, and will people try to, you know, push the envelope there a bit and say, “Oh, I’m just visiting my allowed second bubble [ Inaudible ] Andrew Coster : We’ve needed a lot of common sense to be applied across all the levels, and, in terms of police’s enforcement, we will still start with education. The Prime Minister has referred to this being a high-trust model, and it is. This needs the vast majority of New Zealanders to do the right thing because it’s the right thing to do. Let’s not squander the amazing gains we’ve had so far by being really disciplined and everyone playing their part. Media : Do you expect people to, like, shell out excuses a lot more easier, for example, and say, “Look, I’m just—what I’m doing is totally fine.”, and how will you check those, I suppose? Andrew Coster : Police’s enforcement effort will be particularly focused on clear breaches of the guidelines—for example, gatherings in public places and movement that is clearly outside the realms of what’s normal. We will need the vast majority of people to abide by the restrictions because it’s the right thing to do. Media : Commissioner, what is your advice for hunters heading into level 3, and what will happen if they push those new boundaries in place? Andrew Coster : Advice for hunters? Media : Hunters—yeah. Andrew Coster : That announcement has just been made. I believe the terms of it are clear in terms of people remaining local. For hunting, it’s only on private property, and it will be pretty evident if people are straying outside of that. Media : What happens if they do stray outside and push those new rules in place? Andrew Coster : If people are clearly flouting the rules, then we will take enforcement action, as we have done today. Media : We’ve had reports—anecdotally, I should say—of an increase in the number of emergency service call-outs to mental health, suicide, and self-harm incidents. Firstly, have you noticed that increase, and, secondly, are all Government agencies prepared for an influx in mental health incidents and escalated concerns about that in the days after level 4? Andrew Coster : In terms of Police data on mental health or attempted suicide - related incidents, our demand has remained steady over the past four weeks. However, that doesn’t mean people aren’t struggling, and there’s evidence that people are reaching out to access services in order to get help. It’s very hard to predict what the coming weeks look like, and so we just remain very attuned to how that situation might change. Media : So just to clarify, you have not seen an increase? Andrew Coster : In Police data, we have not. Media : Commissioner Coster, on checkpoints there appeared to be some varied versions of how they’re working. Iwi, for example, across the country say they’ve been very successful, it’s very positive, though in recent days there have been some complaints. What has been the feedback to you from your team and from your officers about how these are working? Are they working well, and are they cooperating well? Andrew Coster : We’ve actively engaged with iwi and communities throughout this situation. A number of communities feeling a particular vulnerability early on in this crisis took it on themselves to establish checkpoints. We have not actively encouraged that. However, where communities have determined that that’s the vulnerability they feel, we’ve worked with them to ensure that lawful use of the road may continue. In this period approaching the transition for level 3, we are re-engaging with all of those groups to ascertain whether those checkpoints are appropriate and need to continue. And, if they are going to continue, then we will make sure there’s a police presence so that lawful movement may continue. Media : But has the feedback to you from your officers and from your team been positive or negative as to how these have been operating? Have they been operating OK from your perspective? Andrew Coster : We have looked into the incidents that have been referenced publicly, examples of potential problems, and inevitably we’ve found quite some discrepancies between what has been described and what actually occurred. Where there have been any problems of significant note, we have dealt with those very proactively. Media : Commissioner, it’s been reported that for the first two weeks of the lockdown there was a cafe operating at National Police Headquarters. So first of all, how could it be that for a fortnight the police were the only people in the country able to buy coffee, and, secondly, did you buy one? Andrew Coster : The initial advice that we—sorry, the operator at the cafe is a contractor to Police as an essential service, and the initial advice from the agency responsible for that was that that was a permitted activity in terms of helping to maintain the essential service that’s being conducted at Police National Headquarters. It is a closed provider of food and beverages. It does catering for Police and also for some other essential agencies. That service provider engaged more recently to double-check that they were allowed to operate, and that led to guidance that they should not operate the front-facing part of that, which was providing service to Police staff, and so they quickly moved to close down the front-facing operation, and, yes, I was a customer of the cafe along with other headquarters staff when the guidance was it was permitted. We have been told that that cafe may reopen as an essential service. However, we have asked all Police providers to adopt the controls that would be expected of any public-facing business, including contactless pick-up and that sort of thing, to ensure that we’re not in any way seen to be outside of the rules that are applying to everybody else. Media : Were those operators amongst the people who were warned or prosecuted? I’m guessing not. Andrew Coster : They were operating at all times within the official advice they had received, so there was no breach in that sense. Media : Director, you mentioned these, sort of, welfare checks that have been conducted for over-70s. How many welfare checks have been conducted for migrants on work visas? Do you have that number right now? Sarah Stuart-Black : I don’t have that detail, but what I understand is that there is outbound calling happening to migrant workers and international visitors to check whether or not their situation has changed and what support might be required by them. We’re also working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to connect to the embassies and consulates where that’s appropriate as well. Media : Has there been any consideration to issuing an emergency benefit for migrant workers? Sarah Stuart-Black : So there’s a range of support mechanisms that are available to all New Zealanders in terms of making sure—and visitors and migrant workers—to make sure that those basic needs are required. Benefits is a different thing. So part of the announcement that the Prime Minister talked to yesterday—sorry, that Minister Henare spoke to yesterday—was regarding additional support measures to make sure that those that might not be eligible for other types of support actually are provided with the financial support that they need when we’re in this period of response. Media : Director, what do you know about the private jet in Dunedin? Is that a repatriation flight? Sarah Stuart-Black : I’m sorry—I don’t have any information about that. I’ll look into it. Media : The prosecutions that we’ve seen, do you have a picture of the nature of those in terms of are they mostly fines that people are receiving and how many of them are people being jailed? Andrew Coster : That’s not so much for the Police. Once we have initiated a prosecution, then that goes into the courts system. So no; I’m not able to provide you with that information at this stage. Media : In addition to that, do you have a breakdown of what charges there were? Andrew Coster : We would be able to provide that. I don’t have that with me, but we will be able to. Media : On those migrant workers, are you able to make clear what help is practically available for them? Places like Queenstown are really, really struggling, calling it a refugee crisis, essentially. Sarah Stuart-Black : So a range of support is provided, including being able to provide those household items for people who might need them, support around rent and those kind of costs, but also other, sort of, support that might be required that might be about connecting people to the right services. So there’s a whole range of workers that might be in New Zealand with different visa requirements, different kind of restrictions on what they can do, and with a number of businesses that might’ve been directly impacted that are actually needing some advice along those lines as well. We can provide an update, certainly, on all of those different measures that are available, if that’s a helpful thing, after this. Media : Commissioner, regarding the checkpoints, if the checkpoints aren’t taken down and you have to provide a police presence, how many officers do you think you are likely to have to allocate to those checkpoints to keep an eye on them? Andrew Coster : It would only be a small presence that would be required for that purpose. We have considered the best way to approach the situation. We operate a prevention-first operating model in Police; that means we aim to take actions to resolve situations if at all possible. We’re mindful that an enforcement action here could escalate things rather than be helpful. We have a lot of empathy for the vulnerability felt by these communities, and we’re working through it with them. Sarah Stuart-Black : One more question. Media : As we move down the alert scale, do you anticipate—you know, eventually, obviously, the checkpoints will have to go. What level would you say that they should go, and— Andrew Coster : We don’t see any need for this kind of checkpoint operating at level 2, so we’re anticipating a transitional period and then that they would come to an end. Sarah Stuart-Black : Thank you. Thanks very much, everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 23 April Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference, 3pm – 23 April
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Government ministers held a media conference at 4pm. Watch the media conferences here. Speaker: Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister of Finance Grant Robertson
Home Updates Transcript of ministers' COVID-19 media conference – 14 April --- Section Separator --- Prime Minister : Good afternoon. It’s day 20 of our COVID-19 alert level 4 lockdown. Today, I am joined by the finance Minister, Grant Robertson, who will shortly make some comments about the Treasury scenarios for our economy, which were released earlier today by the Treasury. But I want to start by recording that we have had a sad and sobering reminder of the need to say the course, today, with four more deaths from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours—our deadliest day to date. We always knew there would be more deaths, even at level 4, and especially in cases where the virus enters a vulnerable community like an aged care facility. It is, however, a reminder of how much worse the spread and death toll would be had we not taken the actions we have taken to break the chain of transmission. The Director-General of Health and I have spoken frequently today, and I want to reiterate the actions he is leading in an area where every country has faced vulnerability—in particular, the requirement for all DHBs to audit arrangements in aged care facilities to ensure compliance with COVID protocols and procedures. This should also help to identify any issues with supply and best-practice use of PPE. He has also initiated a review into aged care facilities where COVID has already been present. As he said, COVID-19 is present in less than 1 percent of our aged care facilities—a stark contrast to the situation in many other countries—but, as we have seen at Rosewood, we now know how devastating it can be when it gets there. The review will look at Rosewood but also the facilities where containment has been successful and we have had aged care facilities who have successfully managed to contain COVID-19. It is timely, and I do endorse the quick action taken by the director-general on this—it was something I absolutely agreed with and supported. As I said yesterday, this is likely to be the most challenging week we face in lockdown, as we see the beginnings of success in terms of getting the virus under control and numbers coming down sitting alongside an increase in the number of deaths. Over the weekend and today, I have seen some commentary that is not unexpected—commentary that reflects our success to date in stamping out the virus as reason enough to take our foot off the pedal; it is not. As the director-general said, we are successfully over the peak. That is not the same thing as being out of the woods. In the meantime, this week, the Ministry of Health continues to undertake more analysis of the testing done to date, seeking that DHBs expand testing once again, and further strengthening contact-tracing efforts and the information around cases where it has not been possible to identify the source of the case. Now, while a small number, these cases—the ones of possible community transmission—are the most important to understand and have under control if we are to move out of level 4 with confidence. We’ve also been reminded over the Easter break of the need for continued enforcement of alert level 4 rules. To give you a quick update of the numbers, to date under level 4, there have been 1,452 breaches. So far, police have made 169 prosecutions. We did anticipate this would rise over time, with the police having used warnings but progressed up the chain when those warnings had not been heard. Thousands of motorists were stopped, at 661 Easter checkpoints, and I note the road toll was zero—the last time this occurred was in 2012. Most New Zealanders understand that now is not the time to let up. We must not squander the good work that everyone has put in over the last 20 days. I will now turn to an announcement that relates to tertiary education. As a Government, pre-COVID-19 we already had a very strong focus on trades training in particular, with vocational education reforms and two years’ free trades training. The foundations for more New Zealanders enrolling in vocational education have already been put in place, but we know we will need to do much more to support tens of thousands of New Zealanders to retrain to get back into the workforce, possibly in an entirely different job. Education will be key to our economic recovery. Today, I can confirm an immediate package of support for our tertiary students to continue and stay in their studies. We know these students often use part-time work to fund their education—work which is no longer there. They’re also facing the loss of support payments due to a learning break of more than three weeks, as their providers put in place alternative forms of teaching. That’s why Cabinet has made some really practical decisions today: to help cover extra costs by increasing the student loan amount available for course-related costs for full-time students from $1,000 to $2,000 on a temporary basis; to continue support payments such as student loans and allowances for students unable to study online for up to eight weeks; and we’ve made technical changes to ensure that, where students receive partial tuition fee refunds in 2020 because their course has been discontinued due to COVID-19, this will not affect their future entitlement to student loans, and where students are unable to complete a course of study in 2020 due to COVID-19, this will not affect their entitlement to fees-free tertiary study. We do not want to see students unfairly disadvantaged from discontinued courses. This gives flexibility during the lockdown period and for four weeks beyond. The extra support will be available from tomorrow. The Minister of Education, Chris Hipkins, will release more detail, but I know he would want to thank all those in the sector, particularly student representatives, who have fed in their insights and supported their fellow students. I thank you too and particularly want to acknowledge the other work that students are doing at this time to help our most vulnerable, including, I’m told, the Student Volunteer Army’s contactless food ordering and delivery services for over-65s, the medically vulnerable, and families of healthcare workers or healthcare workers themselves. Of course, tomorrow’s officially the start of term 2, and I want to also thank our teachers for putting in place the distance learning to help parents during the start of the school term under lockdown. I think we’re all doing a bit of learning at this time; hopefully having Suzy Cato back on our tellies will lighten the load for many. I’ll now hand over to Minister Robertson for an update before taking questions. Hon Grant Robertson : Thank you, Prime Minister. Today, the Treasury released a number of scenarios for the possible impact on the economy based on potential different times spent at different alert levels, the state of the global economy, and the level of fiscal response from the Government. They cover a wide range of scenarios based on previously released public health modelling and lead to a wide range of potential outcomes. It’s important to note that these are not like normal Treasury forecasts or even projections; the comparative data points we use for those are just not there. They are, rather, stylised examples of what the impact might be in different scenarios. They also do not foreshadow any Government decisions to exit the lockdown; these will be made, as the Prime Minister has announced, on 20 April. These scenarios show the Government was right in our decision to go hard and go early in the fight against COVID-19, and they continue to show that the best protection for the economy is to fight the virus. As the Prime Minister has said, we can all be cautiously optimistic about the impact of the work we’re all doing. But some of the forecasts show what could happen if we don’t stick to the current alert level 4 rules or if we have to stay in it for longer or return to level 4 at some point in the future. The scenarios also show just how important the Government’s actions to date, such as the wage subsidy scheme, have been in cushioning the blow of the impact of COVID-19 on the economy and why there is a need for further significant investment to support businesses and households, as we have signalled that we will be doing. As you can see in the two scenarios 1A and 2A, how important it is for this continued investment to protect jobs and support businesses. For example, under scenario 1, unemployment peaks at 359,000, or 13.5 percent, in the June 2020 quarter. Scenario 1A includes an extra $20 billion of Government support for workers and businesses and shows unemployment peaking at 224,000, or 8.3 percent, in the current quarter before reducing to 5 percent next year. Importantly, in scenario 1A, with that additional Government investment, unemployment is only above 200,000 once in the quarter that I have mentioned. This shows the importance of us continuing to invest, and, as a country, we are in a good position to be able to do so. Our net debt, at less than 20 percent of GDP, compares favourably to the OECD average of above 70 percent. We begin this journey from a strong starting position. We are continuing to work on the next stages of our support for New Zealand businesses and households, and tomorrow I will talk about our next steps in our plan to support businesses. PM : Thank you, Minister Robertson. Happy to take questions. Media : Minister Robertson, where will you target that next cash injection—that extension of the fiscal stimulus that you’ve signalled will be significant? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, what we’ll be announcing this week will be in the area of further support for businesses and, in particular, looking at how we use the tax system to continue to support small businesses particularly. Beyond there, our focus has to be on how we position for recovery initially, and I’ve mentioned before when I’ve been here the different sector packages that we’re looking to develop to be able to support those sectors that are particularly affected. We’re also looking into what comes next after the wage subsidy scheme, and, obviously, the front-loading of that scheme was important. A 12-week lump sum payment gives both businesses, workers, and ourselves time to plan and prepare for those next steps. So we’re continuing to look at what we can do to support households as well as what we can do to support businesses and in particular sectors. Media : And, Prime Minister, with the news of 200 jobs being cut at NZME today, do you feel the Government is acting fast enough to support the media sector? PM : I think one of the points, of course, that’s been raised is that, whilst COVID may not be entirely responsible for some of what we’re seeing in some places, it’s exacerbated existing issues. We are looking at bringing in a response to that very shortly, but, really, the first stage will be triaging before we then look to longer-term solutions that take us beyond the COVID environment we’re in right now. Media : Has the Government left it too late to respond given these existing issues? PM : And again, what I would say is that, when we have, for want of a better turn of phrase, you know, issues that have pre-existed before COVID, we’ve got to make sure that we’re supporting, ultimately, a sector that can continue to provide for the public, make sure that there is robust journalism, contestable information and advice to the public, and this highlights the kind of environment where that’s really necessary but, at the same time, where advertising revenue can also disappear. So, yes, we will be moving quite quickly. We have been in regular contact with large media outlets around what we’re working on, and they’ve given us a sense of their status, and we’ve of course had that in mind as we’ve worked up those packages. Media : On that scenario 3 that the Treasury’s put out, what assurances can you give New Zealanders that it won’t come to that? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, it’s not a scenario that I foresee at all, and, certainly, that level of unemployment would not be acceptable to me as the Minister of Finance nor, I’m sure, to the Prime Minister. I simply don’t see that scenario playing out, but it is a good indication of why it is so important that we stick to the rules and we emerge from level 4 as soon as we possibly can. PM : The whole point of a strategy of going hard and going early is so that we do not have prolonged periods, as the Treasury has run scenarios on, of being in lockdown, and we can see overseas countries that are in lockdown at the moment that are extending for very long periods of time. The reason we moved quickly was to avoid those situations. Media : So are you committing to the scenario where New Zealand’s unemployment stays roughly below 10 percent? Are you promising that now? PM : Oh, ultimately, all of us want unemployment to be as low as possible. What we’re simply ruling out is the idea that we would be in lockdown at level 4 for six months. Media : Minister, how sobering were those numbers, looking through those scenarios today? Hon Grant Robertson : Oh, look, I mean, what they show is the significant impact that COVID-19 is having on not only our economy but the global economy. And it is important to note that the variables that Treasury used when they were preparing these scenarios were not just how long we are in each alert level; it was also what state was the global economy in and how much fiscal input would the Government have. So they’re extremely sobering. The point is we have already put in significant resources—around 6.3 percent of GDP—into our recovery and response plan, and there is more to come. And we’ve signalled from the beginning that the package we announced, I think, back on 17 March was only the first stage. We’ve continued to roll out more, and there will be more to come. Media : If things go well, when do you think the economy could bounce back from this? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, again, I mean, you can take a look at the scenarios that are here, and you can see in that scenario 1, for example, in 1A, that things do come back relatively quickly as we move out, but, clearly, there’ll still be restrictions on the economy at level 3 and some at level 2 as well. Also, there are sectors of our economy that we all know will be fundamentally changed from this, such as tourism, as we’ve discussed before. So those impacts will last over a period of time. The great news for New Zealanders is that we are in a strong position to be able to invest significant resources in supporting households, in supporting businesses, and other sectors to get through this. Media : Minister, is scenario 1A the most likely one, or the central one, you’re working on for the Budget? Hon Grant Robertson : These are just scenarios that the Treasury has developed in a stylised form, based on a set of assumptions. I wouldn’t ascribe any of them to a particular point in terms of the Budget process; I would just indicate that the Treasury has endeavoured to do what many people have asked: to try and sketch out what the impact on the economy would be with those different variables in place. We’ll produce the Budget on 14 May. Media : Would that $20 billion response be something that you’ll be talking about this week or in the lead-up to the Budget? Hon Grant Robertson : Oh, certainly, we’ll talk more in the lead-up to the Budget of the kind of response we’re looking at. I think you’ve seen, from what we’ve already done in terms of the investments we’ve made across the board, from the wage subsidy scheme through to the tax changes and the support for vulnerable people, that we’re prepared to spend the money we need to to get New Zealanders through this. We do that with an eye to our long-term health of our economy, and we’ll, at Budget time, be able to announce the full details of that. Media : That scenario is the most optimistic one—it has unemployment peaking at about 8.5 percent. So I guess the million-dollar question is: how likely is it? Hon Grant Robertson : I think that’s probably a billion-dollar question nowadays rather than a million-dollar one. We’re working towards making sure that we keep unemployment as low as possible. The whole point of the wage subsidy scheme has been to keep people connected to their jobs. We now want, as we move through the different levels of the framework, to be able to establish more economic activity, have people coming back into work, and, at the same time, working on those recovery plans that start to redeploy people to different industries, retrain people. So our belief is that, if we execute our plan, if we stick to making sure we’re supporting businesses and households, we can come out with a good outcome for New Zealand. Certainly, one of my main reasons for being in politics is about keeping people in work and jobs, and so I will make sure that whatever we do is focused around that. Media : The family of a man who died at Burwood last night, part of the Rosewood cluster, wants to know why they couldn’t put on PPE gear and be with him in his final moments. PM : And this is one of the devastating effects of COVID—that we are losing people to it, and loved ones aren’t being given the chance to be with them when that happens, but that’s because we don’t want to lose more people. PPE is not failsafe, and, ultimately, I need to rely on clinicians making those incredibly tough decisions, because I know that I would find it incredibly difficult to tell a family member that. Media : Um—sorry— PM : No, I will come back to you—no problem. I do worry about your sleep at the moment, though, Jason. Media : Sir David Skegg says Cabinet could be playing Russian roulette with Kiwi lives by making a decision on the COVID-19 lockdown, especially if we don’t ensure rapid contact-tracing and complete surveillance testing. How confident are you that we won’t be in a risky, unclear position come Monday? PM : So, two quick things. On contact tracing, we absolutely agree with the imperative that our contact tracing has to be second to none. We had Dr Ayesha Verrall come in and undertake that audit around our contact tracing for that very reason. There is more work for us to do off the back of that, because it will continue to be a critical part of our response. So I don’t disagree with David Skegg on that. On the second point, around the knowledge that data and testing brings us, you will have seen now the Ministry of Health is making available that at a regional level. The Director-General of Health has gone out to DHBs and reiterated once again that we want to up the testing that we are seeing in particular regions, and so is even saying, “Look, if someone presents with a runny nose, test them.” Basically, test the people who are coming through with sore throats. Regardless of whether they have a cough, test them so that we can continue to build that data. What we’re not saying at the moment is test someone who has absolutely no symptoms, randomly, and that seems to be the consistent advice from all medical professionals. Jason, I’ll come back to you. Media : So, Mr Robertson, this morning you said that any additional spending would have a wellbeing lens. Could you go into some detail about what that actually means in a practical sense? Hon Grant Robertson : I’m sad that, Jason, you don’t recall the last two years of Budgets in that regard. What that means is we look not just at our financial wellbeing but also our wellbeing as people, what the Treasury like to call human capital; the environment: natural capital; and the strength of our communities: social capital. And I think you can see, in terms of the impact of COVID-19, why it’s necessary to do that. Absolutely there’s a focus on the economy—getting people back into work, getting jobs going, getting productive investment infrastructure under way—but there’s also the impact in the other parts of our lives. The Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage has been very keen to make sure I’m aware of the impact on the arts sector; the same within the sports sector. Right across our society, we are seeing these impacts; so the approach we’re taking as we look towards the Budget is not only just about rebuilding those core economic ideas; it’s also about the society we want to live in. Media : Prime Minister, are you comfortable with the level of information you’ve got—you’re confident you won’t be playing Russian roulette next week? PM : Oh, we of course have to make a decision that we can have confidence in, and we have to have confidence that we won’t be squandering all of the work and sacrifice that has gone into the past 20 days by New Zealanders. I don’t take lightly that decision. We’ll keep making sure that we’re doing everything we can to have the best data available, and, as I say, we won’t take that decision lightly. Media : Can I just ask a question about the tertiary support package—the $98 million in capital expenditure. What can we expect to see there? PM : Sorry, can you start from the top. Media : The $98 million you announced for capital expenditure for the student tertiary package. PM : Yes, that will be the way it’s accounted for by Treasury. Hon Grant Robertson : It’s because the student loan scheme counts as capital within our accounts, because we will get it back eventually. PM : So that’s just a simple accounting quirk, but it’s, essentially, the student loan scheme and the discretionary opt-in option of the additional loan facility then getting $2,000 rather than $1,000 for course-related costs. Media : Prime Minister, a lot of iwi have substantial capital, especially those that have already settled their Treaty settlements. This could play a big role in stimulating the Māori economy post-lockdown. What will the Government be doing to help provide support or work with those iwi and rūnanga to help stimulate that Māori economy? PM : Yeah, and this is where, you know, in a post-COVID environment we do need to start thinking about what New Zealand’s economy will need to look like in order to make the most of what will be often the domestic opportunities we have, but also some of the trade opportunities that will emerge as well, particularly in food production. So that’s where we as a Government need to work at that iwi level to make the most of the thinking we’re doing now around what the future of New Zealand’s economy will look like in a post-COVID world. And so that’s something where we’re looking to reach out. We’re doing it sector by sector, and I’d expect us to do the same with iwi. Media : Prime Minister, can you say why surveillance testing has not yet started? I know there’s complications with less face to face contact, but it’s been four weeks since— PM : Yeah, again, this is where I’d say it’s the same thing. So I think, because of sentinel testing, there’s been an assumption that, unless it has that title, it’s not happening. Sentinel testing actually happens at a much smaller scale than what we’re doing with our testing at the moment through COVID-19. My recollection is that it’s in the low hundreds—maybe 200 tests—and so, of course, the quantum of data that we’re getting through COVID testing and the proportion of that that is negative really is giving us a form of surveillance around our wider community. What we’re finding, though, is that we need to enrich that data in areas where we might not have as much testing—so areas where there haven’t been a lot of cases, we haven’t had as much testing happening—which is why the director-general has now gone out to those areas and said, “Actually, don’t wait for a cough. Don’t wait for a temperature. If there’s a runny nose, test. If there’s a sore throat, test.” These may just be coughs and colds, but let’s enrich the data we have in the same way that we do with sentinel testing in normal circumstances, but on a much larger scale. Media : Will the Government be taking any action against Ruby Princess based on the legal advice you requested from Crown Law over a week ago now? PM : I’m still waiting, and, of course, as you would imagine, formulating legal advice that may lead to a wider investigation will take a bit of time, and so that will need to—of course Crown Law will need to engage with Customs in particular. So that’s not something I’ve got a final response on yet. Media : But you’re not ruling out the prospect of taking legal action against— PM : No, I haven’t ruled that out, and that’s the reason I asked for legal advice in the first place. Media : We’ve spoken to business owners who say that their rent is going to go up by 15 percent as soon as the lockdown ends. Why haven’t you acted on commercial rents yet, and will you implement a rent freeze like you did with residential tenancies? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, the first thing I’d say is, if we have examples of the commercial landlords who are doing that, then we need to call them out. At the Epidemic Response Committee this morning, the chair of that committee gave us the name of a company. I don’t know if it’s the same one that you’re talking about, Jenna, and I regard that behaviour as not in the spirit of what we’re doing. We will have more to say about the question of commercial leases, but overall we are seeing good cooperation and collaboration between landlords and tenants in that regard. Media : You’re, obviously, releasing some more guidance on a move out of lockdown, the lowest levels, later this week. Mr Robertson gave a good steer today, I think, around the principles-based approach for businesses. But, on the social community side of things, can you give any sort of initial indication of what that might look like in terms of being able to travel around—households that may have been separated into different bubbles because they couldn’t reach each other before the lockdown? Will there be flexibility around that? PM : And these are all things, of course, that, as you can imagine, we are thinking about and working up as part of the advice that will go out on Thursday. But, keeping in mind, as I’ve already signalled, alert level 3 still does have considerable restrictions. It is still a level where we are trying to reduce down the amount of contact—social contact—with people to a significant degree, and, in large part, that’s, of course, because, if we do have outbreaks, it’s about making sure, within that alert level, they are as contained as possible, because alert level 3 is still at a place where there’s risks of community transmission. So if you think about that principle, as you can imagine, we will still have guidance that really does restrict wider social engagement. But we do want to think about people’s mental health and wellbeing; so that’s part of our thinking, too. Media : What guarantees can you give about pay cuts and job losses in the public sector, and is there an argument for some public servants to take a pay cut seeing as so many in the private sector are? PM : When it comes to the public sector, of course, we need to keep in mind that many of them are currently our front-line workers and make up a huge part of our essential workforce. And a significant number of them are also offering up and redeploying themselves within different parts of the sector where there’s demand. And so they are a very important workforce to us. I know that they’ll be looking out, though, at what’s happening around them. We are not proposing here that anything happens to their wages, but I know that they will be feeling acutely that, if they are in the public sector, that puts them in a position that many other people are not. Media : When it comes to rebuilding the Government’s balance sheet following this crisis, are you willing to re-look at things that you’ve previously ruled out, like raising the super age, and the CGT and other things like that? PM : No. Media : Just following on from Sam’s question, is it fair to say that big social gatherings—the ban on big social gatherings will be the new normal given that a lot of those clusters originate from, as you say, these normal social outings and the ban on 500 people outside is still there at alert level 1? PM : Yeah. And, you know, one of the, of course, ongoing things that we’ll all experience are restrictions at our border and very managed gatherings at every alert level. So I think the thing to think about in the longer term—and for those who do work in the space of events and so on—is have a think about how you can structure your business in such a way that we can always find people if we need to, because that is going to be a critical part of our ongoing response—contact tracing. If you put on an event, can we find one person in that event and their contact with, say, 20 people around them? If you can’t, that probably says you need to reshape the way you’re doing things. Media : It’s also like physical distancing—like a music festival, for example; you can’t have 2 metres of physical distancing. Certainly, weddings probably wouldn’t be able to happen unless there were unusual arrangements. Can people sort of forget doing that for the time being? PM : Physical distancing, social distancing, will be with us for a long time. Now, of course, we keep those big distances when they’re complete strangers. When we have more controlled environments, then that becomes slightly more manageable—and think about that in terms of the way we look at schools, for instance. We know who’s there; so we can manage if we have problems with social distancing. But, at the same time, it needs to be part of our every day. Media : I’ve just got a question about the wage subsidy. So, if a company applied for the wage subsidy, got it, and then went under—and had received that subsidy—would there be a scenario where they would have to pay that back? How would it work? Hon Grant Robertson : Yeah, so at the moment what we’ve said to companies—not necessarily those who completely fold, but those whose circumstances change—that money is there to pay the wages of their staff, and it should get to their staff in the first instance. We’re not in the business of chasing down companies to try and get money back; it should be paid on to their employees. Media : Prime Minister, we have strict controls on essential businesses but today MBIE have quietly released advice saying that golf course greens keepers are now essential workers. How can you maintain that? PM : The Minister for sports would probably like to respond. Hon Grant Robertson : Oh, I don’t think that’s been quietly done; I think that was telegraphed well and truly last week. Clearly, this is an issue where we’ve had a particular call from the community around the assets that are available in terms of bowling greens, golf courses, other turf, non-plantation nurseries, where there is a huge risk of an enormous loss of those facilities to the communities and also in terms of the economic impact of that. So we worked that through, and we’ve come up with a method by which that can be done safely, following all of the public health guidelines. Media : But how do you square that circle with the public when, you know, you’ve got this sport for rich white guys—now they get their greens keepers—and you’ve got a whole lot of people that want to go back and can’t? PM : Keeping one thing in mind: councils, for instance, are doing this kind of maintenance as well, and the fact that you can have a singular person has been of course part of that public health messaging, and also one of the reasons was, even from the beginning, for councils and things the Ministry of Health acknowledged right from the outset that you didn’t want scenarios where you had rats or other pests congregating because you weren’t doing basic routine maintenance, and so that was the basis on which councils have already been able to undertake that kind of maintenance work as well. Media : Prime Minister, students say a one-off loan doesn’t do enough to cover the cost of living. How are students who have had their income cut supposed to get by? PM : Well, another point I would make is that, of course, even if they are casualised staff, they are eligible for the wage subsidy as well; it also accounts for part-time staff. So I would, again, really just implore employers: where they have had staff—particularly who may be students who have been reliant on that income—remember the wage subsidy is there for them, and it should be passed on to that group. Media : Because student unions are asking why the students have to take out loans when other interest groups get straight-up subsidies? PM : What example would that be? Media: Um— PM: So I guess the point I’m making is that, if they’re referring to employers as an interest group, those are employers who employ students. They should be getting that wage subsidy so that they can pass that on to those students who may be in that students, in the same way they do with any other employee. So this is not the only form of support that students who may have lost work should be able to access. The other point is that they are also able to access support through MSD hardship, and my understanding is that they have been doing that. So that’s equally available for them as well—this is in addition to that. Media : Are you going to offer any additional support for businesses for paying rent—so over and above the wage subsidy? Because, if they can’t pay their rent, there’s no point in having the wage subsidy—they’re not going to employ people. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, as we’ve said from the beginning, that was our first step. We continue to work on what is possible to support small businesses in particular to get through this. There’s ongoing work. There will be further announcements—some of those will be made this week. PM : Ultimately, people, of course, should continue to access their banks as well. Media : Māori healthcare providers are reporting that they’re not being able to access part of that $30 million that was put aside. Can you give any detail—a breakdown—on where that money is going to go and when they can expect to receive it? PM : Broadly speaking, I’m told that within the next two days elements of that package will begin to be paid out to those relevant providers. Important to make the point, though, that it is not just simply a blanket payment for all iwi providers, but rather those that are providing, for instance, clinics, outreach, and are part of the COVID-19 response. OK, I’ll take the last two—Bernard and then Ben. Media : Are you concerned that one of the responses from business is across-the-board pay cuts, and that this might create expectations of permanently lower wages or some sort of inflationary— PM : I don’t know why you’re asking just the Minister of Finance; I have a pretty strong view on this as well. Shall we both have a go? Hon Grant Robertson: You have a go, and then I’ll have a go. PM : You know, I think that, at this time, it’s about leadership, and if ever we’ve got a time to perhaps close some of the inequalities that exist, now would be that time, and so let’s show leadership at the top, and not ask those on some of the lowest incomes to carry that burden. Minister Robertson? Media : Are you taking a pay cut, then, Prime Minister? Hon Grant Robertson: No, I don’t have anything to add to that. PM : I’m not making any announcements today, but as you know, this is an issue we have been considering. Ben? Media : On behalf of Interest, only two—I think it’s to you, Mr Robertson—of Treasury’s seven scenarios consider the impacts of more Government spending, and this is despite the Government making it quite clear for some time that more spending is coming. So you’re happy with the analysis, or do you expect Treasury to do more robust analysis? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s a pretty tough call on Treasury to say that the analysis should be more robust. As I said before, we don’t actually have the kind of data points we would normally have when we’re doing forecasting; so they’ve taken on both different alert levels, also with the state of the global economy, and, as you say, two examples with extra Government spending in them. I can just reiterate my point: we understand we need to support New Zealanders, businesses, and households through this. We’ve already done that significantly, and we have committed to doing more. PM : OK. Thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- Prime Minister : Good afternoon. It’s day 20 of our COVID-19 alert level 4 lockdown. Today, I am joined by the finance Minister, Grant Robertson, who will shortly make some comments about the Treasury scenarios for our economy, which were released earlier today by the Treasury. But I want to start by recording that we have had a sad and sobering reminder of the need to say the course, today, with four more deaths from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours—our deadliest day to date. We always knew there would be more deaths, even at level 4, and especially in cases where the virus enters a vulnerable community like an aged care facility. It is, however, a reminder of how much worse the spread and death toll would be had we not taken the actions we have taken to break the chain of transmission. The Director-General of Health and I have spoken frequently today, and I want to reiterate the actions he is leading in an area where every country has faced vulnerability—in particular, the requirement for all DHBs to audit arrangements in aged care facilities to ensure compliance with COVID protocols and procedures. This should also help to identify any issues with supply and best-practice use of PPE. He has also initiated a review into aged care facilities where COVID has already been present. As he said, COVID-19 is present in less than 1 percent of our aged care facilities—a stark contrast to the situation in many other countries—but, as we have seen at Rosewood, we now know how devastating it can be when it gets there. The review will look at Rosewood but also the facilities where containment has been successful and we have had aged care facilities who have successfully managed to contain COVID-19. It is timely, and I do endorse the quick action taken by the director-general on this—it was something I absolutely agreed with and supported. As I said yesterday, this is likely to be the most challenging week we face in lockdown, as we see the beginnings of success in terms of getting the virus under control and numbers coming down sitting alongside an increase in the number of deaths. Over the weekend and today, I have seen some commentary that is not unexpected—commentary that reflects our success to date in stamping out the virus as reason enough to take our foot off the pedal; it is not. As the director-general said, we are successfully over the peak. That is not the same thing as being out of the woods. In the meantime, this week, the Ministry of Health continues to undertake more analysis of the testing done to date, seeking that DHBs expand testing once again, and further strengthening contact-tracing efforts and the information around cases where it has not been possible to identify the source of the case. Now, while a small number, these cases—the ones of possible community transmission—are the most important to understand and have under control if we are to move out of level 4 with confidence. We’ve also been reminded over the Easter break of the need for continued enforcement of alert level 4 rules. To give you a quick update of the numbers, to date under level 4, there have been 1,452 breaches. So far, police have made 169 prosecutions. We did anticipate this would rise over time, with the police having used warnings but progressed up the chain when those warnings had not been heard. Thousands of motorists were stopped, at 661 Easter checkpoints, and I note the road toll was zero—the last time this occurred was in 2012. Most New Zealanders understand that now is not the time to let up. We must not squander the good work that everyone has put in over the last 20 days. I will now turn to an announcement that relates to tertiary education. As a Government, pre-COVID-19 we already had a very strong focus on trades training in particular, with vocational education reforms and two years’ free trades training. The foundations for more New Zealanders enrolling in vocational education have already been put in place, but we know we will need to do much more to support tens of thousands of New Zealanders to retrain to get back into the workforce, possibly in an entirely different job. Education will be key to our economic recovery. Today, I can confirm an immediate package of support for our tertiary students to continue and stay in their studies. We know these students often use part-time work to fund their education—work which is no longer there. They’re also facing the loss of support payments due to a learning break of more than three weeks, as their providers put in place alternative forms of teaching. That’s why Cabinet has made some really practical decisions today: to help cover extra costs by increasing the student loan amount available for course-related costs for full-time students from $1,000 to $2,000 on a temporary basis; to continue support payments such as student loans and allowances for students unable to study online for up to eight weeks; and we’ve made technical changes to ensure that, where students receive partial tuition fee refunds in 2020 because their course has been discontinued due to COVID-19, this will not affect their future entitlement to student loans, and where students are unable to complete a course of study in 2020 due to COVID-19, this will not affect their entitlement to fees-free tertiary study. We do not want to see students unfairly disadvantaged from discontinued courses. This gives flexibility during the lockdown period and for four weeks beyond. The extra support will be available from tomorrow. The Minister of Education, Chris Hipkins, will release more detail, but I know he would want to thank all those in the sector, particularly student representatives, who have fed in their insights and supported their fellow students. I thank you too and particularly want to acknowledge the other work that students are doing at this time to help our most vulnerable, including, I’m told, the Student Volunteer Army’s contactless food ordering and delivery services for over-65s, the medically vulnerable, and families of healthcare workers or healthcare workers themselves. Of course, tomorrow’s officially the start of term 2, and I want to also thank our teachers for putting in place the distance learning to help parents during the start of the school term under lockdown. I think we’re all doing a bit of learning at this time; hopefully having Suzy Cato back on our tellies will lighten the load for many. I’ll now hand over to Minister Robertson for an update before taking questions. Hon Grant Robertson : Thank you, Prime Minister. Today, the Treasury released a number of scenarios for the possible impact on the economy based on potential different times spent at different alert levels, the state of the global economy, and the level of fiscal response from the Government. They cover a wide range of scenarios based on previously released public health modelling and lead to a wide range of potential outcomes. It’s important to note that these are not like normal Treasury forecasts or even projections; the comparative data points we use for those are just not there. They are, rather, stylised examples of what the impact might be in different scenarios. They also do not foreshadow any Government decisions to exit the lockdown; these will be made, as the Prime Minister has announced, on 20 April. These scenarios show the Government was right in our decision to go hard and go early in the fight against COVID-19, and they continue to show that the best protection for the economy is to fight the virus. As the Prime Minister has said, we can all be cautiously optimistic about the impact of the work we’re all doing. But some of the forecasts show what could happen if we don’t stick to the current alert level 4 rules or if we have to stay in it for longer or return to level 4 at some point in the future. The scenarios also show just how important the Government’s actions to date, such as the wage subsidy scheme, have been in cushioning the blow of the impact of COVID-19 on the economy and why there is a need for further significant investment to support businesses and households, as we have signalled that we will be doing. As you can see in the two scenarios 1A and 2A, how important it is for this continued investment to protect jobs and support businesses. For example, under scenario 1, unemployment peaks at 359,000, or 13.5 percent, in the June 2020 quarter. Scenario 1A includes an extra $20 billion of Government support for workers and businesses and shows unemployment peaking at 224,000, or 8.3 percent, in the current quarter before reducing to 5 percent next year. Importantly, in scenario 1A, with that additional Government investment, unemployment is only above 200,000 once in the quarter that I have mentioned. This shows the importance of us continuing to invest, and, as a country, we are in a good position to be able to do so. Our net debt, at less than 20 percent of GDP, compares favourably to the OECD average of above 70 percent. We begin this journey from a strong starting position. We are continuing to work on the next stages of our support for New Zealand businesses and households, and tomorrow I will talk about our next steps in our plan to support businesses. PM : Thank you, Minister Robertson. Happy to take questions. Media : Minister Robertson, where will you target that next cash injection—that extension of the fiscal stimulus that you’ve signalled will be significant? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, what we’ll be announcing this week will be in the area of further support for businesses and, in particular, looking at how we use the tax system to continue to support small businesses particularly. Beyond there, our focus has to be on how we position for recovery initially, and I’ve mentioned before when I’ve been here the different sector packages that we’re looking to develop to be able to support those sectors that are particularly affected. We’re also looking into what comes next after the wage subsidy scheme, and, obviously, the front-loading of that scheme was important. A 12-week lump sum payment gives both businesses, workers, and ourselves time to plan and prepare for those next steps. So we’re continuing to look at what we can do to support households as well as what we can do to support businesses and in particular sectors. Media : And, Prime Minister, with the news of 200 jobs being cut at NZME today, do you feel the Government is acting fast enough to support the media sector? PM : I think one of the points, of course, that’s been raised is that, whilst COVID may not be entirely responsible for some of what we’re seeing in some places, it’s exacerbated existing issues. We are looking at bringing in a response to that very shortly, but, really, the first stage will be triaging before we then look to longer-term solutions that take us beyond the COVID environment we’re in right now. Media : Has the Government left it too late to respond given these existing issues? PM : And again, what I would say is that, when we have, for want of a better turn of phrase, you know, issues that have pre-existed before COVID, we’ve got to make sure that we’re supporting, ultimately, a sector that can continue to provide for the public, make sure that there is robust journalism, contestable information and advice to the public, and this highlights the kind of environment where that’s really necessary but, at the same time, where advertising revenue can also disappear. So, yes, we will be moving quite quickly. We have been in regular contact with large media outlets around what we’re working on, and they’ve given us a sense of their status, and we’ve of course had that in mind as we’ve worked up those packages. Media : On that scenario 3 that the Treasury’s put out, what assurances can you give New Zealanders that it won’t come to that? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, it’s not a scenario that I foresee at all, and, certainly, that level of unemployment would not be acceptable to me as the Minister of Finance nor, I’m sure, to the Prime Minister. I simply don’t see that scenario playing out, but it is a good indication of why it is so important that we stick to the rules and we emerge from level 4 as soon as we possibly can. PM : The whole point of a strategy of going hard and going early is so that we do not have prolonged periods, as the Treasury has run scenarios on, of being in lockdown, and we can see overseas countries that are in lockdown at the moment that are extending for very long periods of time. The reason we moved quickly was to avoid those situations. Media : So are you committing to the scenario where New Zealand’s unemployment stays roughly below 10 percent? Are you promising that now? PM : Oh, ultimately, all of us want unemployment to be as low as possible. What we’re simply ruling out is the idea that we would be in lockdown at level 4 for six months. Media : Minister, how sobering were those numbers, looking through those scenarios today? Hon Grant Robertson : Oh, look, I mean, what they show is the significant impact that COVID-19 is having on not only our economy but the global economy. And it is important to note that the variables that Treasury used when they were preparing these scenarios were not just how long we are in each alert level; it was also what state was the global economy in and how much fiscal input would the Government have. So they’re extremely sobering. The point is we have already put in significant resources—around 6.3 percent of GDP—into our recovery and response plan, and there is more to come. And we’ve signalled from the beginning that the package we announced, I think, back on 17 March was only the first stage. We’ve continued to roll out more, and there will be more to come. Media : If things go well, when do you think the economy could bounce back from this? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, again, I mean, you can take a look at the scenarios that are here, and you can see in that scenario 1, for example, in 1A, that things do come back relatively quickly as we move out, but, clearly, there’ll still be restrictions on the economy at level 3 and some at level 2 as well. Also, there are sectors of our economy that we all know will be fundamentally changed from this, such as tourism, as we’ve discussed before. So those impacts will last over a period of time. The great news for New Zealanders is that we are in a strong position to be able to invest significant resources in supporting households, in supporting businesses, and other sectors to get through this. Media : Minister, is scenario 1A the most likely one, or the central one, you’re working on for the Budget? Hon Grant Robertson : These are just scenarios that the Treasury has developed in a stylised form, based on a set of assumptions. I wouldn’t ascribe any of them to a particular point in terms of the Budget process; I would just indicate that the Treasury has endeavoured to do what many people have asked: to try and sketch out what the impact on the economy would be with those different variables in place. We’ll produce the Budget on 14 May. Media : Would that $20 billion response be something that you’ll be talking about this week or in the lead-up to the Budget? Hon Grant Robertson : Oh, certainly, we’ll talk more in the lead-up to the Budget of the kind of response we’re looking at. I think you’ve seen, from what we’ve already done in terms of the investments we’ve made across the board, from the wage subsidy scheme through to the tax changes and the support for vulnerable people, that we’re prepared to spend the money we need to to get New Zealanders through this. We do that with an eye to our long-term health of our economy, and we’ll, at Budget time, be able to announce the full details of that. Media : That scenario is the most optimistic one—it has unemployment peaking at about 8.5 percent. So I guess the million-dollar question is: how likely is it? Hon Grant Robertson : I think that’s probably a billion-dollar question nowadays rather than a million-dollar one. We’re working towards making sure that we keep unemployment as low as possible. The whole point of the wage subsidy scheme has been to keep people connected to their jobs. We now want, as we move through the different levels of the framework, to be able to establish more economic activity, have people coming back into work, and, at the same time, working on those recovery plans that start to redeploy people to different industries, retrain people. So our belief is that, if we execute our plan, if we stick to making sure we’re supporting businesses and households, we can come out with a good outcome for New Zealand. Certainly, one of my main reasons for being in politics is about keeping people in work and jobs, and so I will make sure that whatever we do is focused around that. Media : The family of a man who died at Burwood last night, part of the Rosewood cluster, wants to know why they couldn’t put on PPE gear and be with him in his final moments. PM : And this is one of the devastating effects of COVID—that we are losing people to it, and loved ones aren’t being given the chance to be with them when that happens, but that’s because we don’t want to lose more people. PPE is not failsafe, and, ultimately, I need to rely on clinicians making those incredibly tough decisions, because I know that I would find it incredibly difficult to tell a family member that. Media : Um—sorry— PM : No, I will come back to you—no problem. I do worry about your sleep at the moment, though, Jason. Media : Sir David Skegg says Cabinet could be playing Russian roulette with Kiwi lives by making a decision on the COVID-19 lockdown, especially if we don’t ensure rapid contact-tracing and complete surveillance testing. How confident are you that we won’t be in a risky, unclear position come Monday? PM : So, two quick things. On contact tracing, we absolutely agree with the imperative that our contact tracing has to be second to none. We had Dr Ayesha Verrall come in and undertake that audit around our contact tracing for that very reason. There is more work for us to do off the back of that, because it will continue to be a critical part of our response. So I don’t disagree with David Skegg on that. On the second point, around the knowledge that data and testing brings us, you will have seen now the Ministry of Health is making available that at a regional level. The Director-General of Health has gone out to DHBs and reiterated once again that we want to up the testing that we are seeing in particular regions, and so is even saying, “Look, if someone presents with a runny nose, test them.” Basically, test the people who are coming through with sore throats. Regardless of whether they have a cough, test them so that we can continue to build that data. What we’re not saying at the moment is test someone who has absolutely no symptoms, randomly, and that seems to be the consistent advice from all medical professionals. Jason, I’ll come back to you. Media : So, Mr Robertson, this morning you said that any additional spending would have a wellbeing lens. Could you go into some detail about what that actually means in a practical sense? Hon Grant Robertson : I’m sad that, Jason, you don’t recall the last two years of Budgets in that regard. What that means is we look not just at our financial wellbeing but also our wellbeing as people, what the Treasury like to call human capital; the environment: natural capital; and the strength of our communities: social capital. And I think you can see, in terms of the impact of COVID-19, why it’s necessary to do that. Absolutely there’s a focus on the economy—getting people back into work, getting jobs going, getting productive investment infrastructure under way—but there’s also the impact in the other parts of our lives. The Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage has been very keen to make sure I’m aware of the impact on the arts sector; the same within the sports sector. Right across our society, we are seeing these impacts; so the approach we’re taking as we look towards the Budget is not only just about rebuilding those core economic ideas; it’s also about the society we want to live in. Media : Prime Minister, are you comfortable with the level of information you’ve got—you’re confident you won’t be playing Russian roulette next week? PM : Oh, we of course have to make a decision that we can have confidence in, and we have to have confidence that we won’t be squandering all of the work and sacrifice that has gone into the past 20 days by New Zealanders. I don’t take lightly that decision. We’ll keep making sure that we’re doing everything we can to have the best data available, and, as I say, we won’t take that decision lightly. Media : Can I just ask a question about the tertiary support package—the $98 million in capital expenditure. What can we expect to see there? PM : Sorry, can you start from the top. Media : The $98 million you announced for capital expenditure for the student tertiary package. PM : Yes, that will be the way it’s accounted for by Treasury. Hon Grant Robertson : It’s because the student loan scheme counts as capital within our accounts, because we will get it back eventually. PM : So that’s just a simple accounting quirk, but it’s, essentially, the student loan scheme and the discretionary opt-in option of the additional loan facility then getting $2,000 rather than $1,000 for course-related costs. Media : Prime Minister, a lot of iwi have substantial capital, especially those that have already settled their Treaty settlements. This could play a big role in stimulating the Māori economy post-lockdown. What will the Government be doing to help provide support or work with those iwi and rūnanga to help stimulate that Māori economy? PM : Yeah, and this is where, you know, in a post-COVID environment we do need to start thinking about what New Zealand’s economy will need to look like in order to make the most of what will be often the domestic opportunities we have, but also some of the trade opportunities that will emerge as well, particularly in food production. So that’s where we as a Government need to work at that iwi level to make the most of the thinking we’re doing now around what the future of New Zealand’s economy will look like in a post-COVID world. And so that’s something where we’re looking to reach out. We’re doing it sector by sector, and I’d expect us to do the same with iwi. Media : Prime Minister, can you say why surveillance testing has not yet started? I know there’s complications with less face to face contact, but it’s been four weeks since— PM : Yeah, again, this is where I’d say it’s the same thing. So I think, because of sentinel testing, there’s been an assumption that, unless it has that title, it’s not happening. Sentinel testing actually happens at a much smaller scale than what we’re doing with our testing at the moment through COVID-19. My recollection is that it’s in the low hundreds—maybe 200 tests—and so, of course, the quantum of data that we’re getting through COVID testing and the proportion of that that is negative really is giving us a form of surveillance around our wider community. What we’re finding, though, is that we need to enrich that data in areas where we might not have as much testing—so areas where there haven’t been a lot of cases, we haven’t had as much testing happening—which is why the director-general has now gone out to those areas and said, “Actually, don’t wait for a cough. Don’t wait for a temperature. If there’s a runny nose, test. If there’s a sore throat, test.” These may just be coughs and colds, but let’s enrich the data we have in the same way that we do with sentinel testing in normal circumstances, but on a much larger scale. Media : Will the Government be taking any action against Ruby Princess based on the legal advice you requested from Crown Law over a week ago now? PM : I’m still waiting, and, of course, as you would imagine, formulating legal advice that may lead to a wider investigation will take a bit of time, and so that will need to—of course Crown Law will need to engage with Customs in particular. So that’s not something I’ve got a final response on yet. Media : But you’re not ruling out the prospect of taking legal action against— PM : No, I haven’t ruled that out, and that’s the reason I asked for legal advice in the first place. Media : We’ve spoken to business owners who say that their rent is going to go up by 15 percent as soon as the lockdown ends. Why haven’t you acted on commercial rents yet, and will you implement a rent freeze like you did with residential tenancies? Hon Grant Robertson : Well, the first thing I’d say is, if we have examples of the commercial landlords who are doing that, then we need to call them out. At the Epidemic Response Committee this morning, the chair of that committee gave us the name of a company. I don’t know if it’s the same one that you’re talking about, Jenna, and I regard that behaviour as not in the spirit of what we’re doing. We will have more to say about the question of commercial leases, but overall we are seeing good cooperation and collaboration between landlords and tenants in that regard. Media : You’re, obviously, releasing some more guidance on a move out of lockdown, the lowest levels, later this week. Mr Robertson gave a good steer today, I think, around the principles-based approach for businesses. But, on the social community side of things, can you give any sort of initial indication of what that might look like in terms of being able to travel around—households that may have been separated into different bubbles because they couldn’t reach each other before the lockdown? Will there be flexibility around that? PM : And these are all things, of course, that, as you can imagine, we are thinking about and working up as part of the advice that will go out on Thursday. But, keeping in mind, as I’ve already signalled, alert level 3 still does have considerable restrictions. It is still a level where we are trying to reduce down the amount of contact—social contact—with people to a significant degree, and, in large part, that’s, of course, because, if we do have outbreaks, it’s about making sure, within that alert level, they are as contained as possible, because alert level 3 is still at a place where there’s risks of community transmission. So if you think about that principle, as you can imagine, we will still have guidance that really does restrict wider social engagement. But we do want to think about people’s mental health and wellbeing; so that’s part of our thinking, too. Media : What guarantees can you give about pay cuts and job losses in the public sector, and is there an argument for some public servants to take a pay cut seeing as so many in the private sector are? PM : When it comes to the public sector, of course, we need to keep in mind that many of them are currently our front-line workers and make up a huge part of our essential workforce. And a significant number of them are also offering up and redeploying themselves within different parts of the sector where there’s demand. And so they are a very important workforce to us. I know that they’ll be looking out, though, at what’s happening around them. We are not proposing here that anything happens to their wages, but I know that they will be feeling acutely that, if they are in the public sector, that puts them in a position that many other people are not. Media : When it comes to rebuilding the Government’s balance sheet following this crisis, are you willing to re-look at things that you’ve previously ruled out, like raising the super age, and the CGT and other things like that? PM : No. Media : Just following on from Sam’s question, is it fair to say that big social gatherings—the ban on big social gatherings will be the new normal given that a lot of those clusters originate from, as you say, these normal social outings and the ban on 500 people outside is still there at alert level 1? PM : Yeah. And, you know, one of the, of course, ongoing things that we’ll all experience are restrictions at our border and very managed gatherings at every alert level. So I think the thing to think about in the longer term—and for those who do work in the space of events and so on—is have a think about how you can structure your business in such a way that we can always find people if we need to, because that is going to be a critical part of our ongoing response—contact tracing. If you put on an event, can we find one person in that event and their contact with, say, 20 people around them? If you can’t, that probably says you need to reshape the way you’re doing things. Media : It’s also like physical distancing—like a music festival, for example; you can’t have 2 metres of physical distancing. Certainly, weddings probably wouldn’t be able to happen unless there were unusual arrangements. Can people sort of forget doing that for the time being? PM : Physical distancing, social distancing, will be with us for a long time. Now, of course, we keep those big distances when they’re complete strangers. When we have more controlled environments, then that becomes slightly more manageable—and think about that in terms of the way we look at schools, for instance. We know who’s there; so we can manage if we have problems with social distancing. But, at the same time, it needs to be part of our every day. Media : I’ve just got a question about the wage subsidy. So, if a company applied for the wage subsidy, got it, and then went under—and had received that subsidy—would there be a scenario where they would have to pay that back? How would it work? Hon Grant Robertson : Yeah, so at the moment what we’ve said to companies—not necessarily those who completely fold, but those whose circumstances change—that money is there to pay the wages of their staff, and it should get to their staff in the first instance. We’re not in the business of chasing down companies to try and get money back; it should be paid on to their employees. Media : Prime Minister, we have strict controls on essential businesses but today MBIE have quietly released advice saying that golf course greens keepers are now essential workers. How can you maintain that? PM : The Minister for sports would probably like to respond. Hon Grant Robertson : Oh, I don’t think that’s been quietly done; I think that was telegraphed well and truly last week. Clearly, this is an issue where we’ve had a particular call from the community around the assets that are available in terms of bowling greens, golf courses, other turf, non-plantation nurseries, where there is a huge risk of an enormous loss of those facilities to the communities and also in terms of the economic impact of that. So we worked that through, and we’ve come up with a method by which that can be done safely, following all of the public health guidelines. Media : But how do you square that circle with the public when, you know, you’ve got this sport for rich white guys—now they get their greens keepers—and you’ve got a whole lot of people that want to go back and can’t? PM : Keeping one thing in mind: councils, for instance, are doing this kind of maintenance as well, and the fact that you can have a singular person has been of course part of that public health messaging, and also one of the reasons was, even from the beginning, for councils and things the Ministry of Health acknowledged right from the outset that you didn’t want scenarios where you had rats or other pests congregating because you weren’t doing basic routine maintenance, and so that was the basis on which councils have already been able to undertake that kind of maintenance work as well. Media : Prime Minister, students say a one-off loan doesn’t do enough to cover the cost of living. How are students who have had their income cut supposed to get by? PM : Well, another point I would make is that, of course, even if they are casualised staff, they are eligible for the wage subsidy as well; it also accounts for part-time staff. So I would, again, really just implore employers: where they have had staff—particularly who may be students who have been reliant on that income—remember the wage subsidy is there for them, and it should be passed on to that group. Media : Because student unions are asking why the students have to take out loans when other interest groups get straight-up subsidies? PM : What example would that be? Media: Um— PM: So I guess the point I’m making is that, if they’re referring to employers as an interest group, those are employers who employ students. They should be getting that wage subsidy so that they can pass that on to those students who may be in that students, in the same way they do with any other employee. So this is not the only form of support that students who may have lost work should be able to access. The other point is that they are also able to access support through MSD hardship, and my understanding is that they have been doing that. So that’s equally available for them as well—this is in addition to that. Media : Are you going to offer any additional support for businesses for paying rent—so over and above the wage subsidy? Because, if they can’t pay their rent, there’s no point in having the wage subsidy—they’re not going to employ people. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, as we’ve said from the beginning, that was our first step. We continue to work on what is possible to support small businesses in particular to get through this. There’s ongoing work. There will be further announcements—some of those will be made this week. PM : Ultimately, people, of course, should continue to access their banks as well. Media : Māori healthcare providers are reporting that they’re not being able to access part of that $30 million that was put aside. Can you give any detail—a breakdown—on where that money is going to go and when they can expect to receive it? PM : Broadly speaking, I’m told that within the next two days elements of that package will begin to be paid out to those relevant providers. Important to make the point, though, that it is not just simply a blanket payment for all iwi providers, but rather those that are providing, for instance, clinics, outreach, and are part of the COVID-19 response. OK, I’ll take the last two—Bernard and then Ben. Media : Are you concerned that one of the responses from business is across-the-board pay cuts, and that this might create expectations of permanently lower wages or some sort of inflationary— PM : I don’t know why you’re asking just the Minister of Finance; I have a pretty strong view on this as well. Shall we both have a go? Hon Grant Robertson: You have a go, and then I’ll have a go. PM : You know, I think that, at this time, it’s about leadership, and if ever we’ve got a time to perhaps close some of the inequalities that exist, now would be that time, and so let’s show leadership at the top, and not ask those on some of the lowest incomes to carry that burden. Minister Robertson? Media : Are you taking a pay cut, then, Prime Minister? Hon Grant Robertson: No, I don’t have anything to add to that. PM : I’m not making any announcements today, but as you know, this is an issue we have been considering. Ben? Media : On behalf of Interest, only two—I think it’s to you, Mr Robertson—of Treasury’s seven scenarios consider the impacts of more Government spending, and this is despite the Government making it quite clear for some time that more spending is coming. So you’re happy with the analysis, or do you expect Treasury to do more robust analysis? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s a pretty tough call on Treasury to say that the analysis should be more robust. As I said before, we don’t actually have the kind of data points we would normally have when we’re doing forecasting; so they’ve taken on both different alert levels, also with the state of the global economy, and, as you say, two examples with extra Government spending in them. I can just reiterate my point: we understand we need to support New Zealanders, businesses, and households through this. We’ve already done that significantly, and we have committed to doing more. PM : OK. Thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of officials' COVID-19 media conference – 14 April Transcript of ministers' COVID-19 media conference – 14 April
Home Updates Transcript of officials' COVID-19 media conference – 14 April --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Tēnā koutou katoa. Welcome to today’s briefing. Today I’m very, very sad to report four additional deaths linked to COVID-19 infection. One of those was in Wellington and three are additional deaths from the Rosewood cluster in Christchurch. This brings the total number of deaths in New Zealand to nine, six of which involve Rosewood residents being cared for at Burwood Hospital. So the deaths I’m updating you on today are of a man in his 90s at Burwood Hospital, a man in his 80s at Burwood, another man in his 90s at Burwood, and the fourth death was of a man in his 70s in Wellington Hospital, and that latter death was associated with overseas travel. We’ve previously signalled the underlying vulnerabilities of the Rosewood residents and that this group would continue to be at risk. That does make today’s news any less sad. This is the largest number of deaths we have reported on any day in New Zealand from COVID-19, and it is a sobering reminder of what is at stake here. I do want to acknowledge the families associated with these people who have passed and offer my sympathy and those, I think, of all New Zealanders and our support. Whether husbands, partners, fathers, grandfathers, brothers, uncles, cousins or friends, wherever they fit in their wider whānau, we are thinking of them and of you. I do ask that the privacy of families and friends associated with these deaths continues to be respected. And what I can say is that of the folk who died in Rosewood yesterday, they all had underlying conditions to some degree and were all confirmed cases of COVID-19. The man in Wellington was admitted to hospital on 22 March and has been quite unwell in ICU for some time. The district health board and staff have been working very closely with the man and his family over the time and will continue, of course, to provide support to the family. As I’ve said earlier on previous briefings, the Rosewood group was transferred from a high-level psychogeriatric or dementia unit. The care they have been receiving is very consistent with the high level of care they were receiving at Rosewood and would have been provided there, and that does include end of life and palliative care. And just before I make some more general remarks about what we are doing and how we’re working closely with the aged residential care sector, I just wanted to pass on some feedback we’ve had today from the family of a Rosewood resident at Burwood who could not speak highly enough of the nursing staff: “They’re just amazing, doing an incredible job. The communication with us was superb. We had lots of calls, including Facetime calls with Dad. We are so grateful.” And from another of the families: “We couldn’t speak more highly of the staff and care dad received both at Burwood and Rosewood. I skyped with dad and the nurse caring for him arranged for him to see a video the family had put together, and there were lots of phone calls.” So we know that aged residential care settings and facilities are very vulnerable—the populations there are very vulnerable if we get COVID-19 infection in those facilities. And so we have been particularly vigilant from early on in the presentation of this infection globally to work closely with aged residential care and act very quickly and pre-emptively. And what I would say is that we’ve had cases to date, or have cases, in six aged residential care facilities around the country, and this is out of a total of over 650 facilities nationwide. I mentioned yesterday and on the preceding day the excellent care and preparation that is in place across that sector, and the fact that we have had relatively few of our facilities affected by this virus, in quite stark contrast to many other countries, I think, is testament to the work they have been doing. And again, to emphasise, we’ve been working with them very closely from early on in this outbreak. We early on provided advice around ensuring nobody came to their facilities who had any respiratory symptoms at all. They put in place visitor policies—no-visiting policies—much sooner than we went into alert level 4. So I’d just like to outline some of the other measures we’re working with them on, just so people understand. Every new arrival into an aged residential care facility goes into isolation for 14 days. There are no shared meals happening in the facilities. As I said earlier on, and for some time, no visiting allowed at the moment. I’ve asked all our DHBs to work with each of the facilities in their region to ensure they have good policies, procedures; that they have access to PPE that they need and good supply lines; and to identify what other support those facilities may need to help ensure we keep that high level of care and of preventing COVID-19 getting into those facilities. There is a low threshold for testing of any residents who might be symptomatic; and, of any new arrivals, if they have any symptoms whatever, a precautionary approach is taken—they are tested and they are not allowed into the facility unless they have tested negative—and also a low threshold for testing staff. And, obviously, staff who are sick have to stay home, and there’s very careful observation of any symptoms of staff. In addition, we’re doing a number of other things, and last night I was on a video conference with the head of the Aged Care Association—both the chair and the chief executive—to talk about what else we are doing and can be doing with them. There will be announcements later in the week about funding for aged residential care to help offset some of the additional costs they are incurring to both prepare and look after people who may have or who do have COVID-19, for extra security and so on. We continue to work with them on making sure we are maximising the value of testing of both residents, of incoming admissions, and of staff. And I have also decided to commission a review of the rest home facilities—or the aged residential care facilities—where we have had cases, because in some of those instances the cases have been able to be bounded very quickly with no further transmission, and others we’ve seen just how tricky this virus is and that it can spread quite rapidly. So we think it’s a very good point in time to undertake a review of both the facilities where we have had cases—to learn about what’s worked well and where we could improve—but also to look at some facilities that might be similar where they haven’t had cases. And my hope is to do this in conjunction with the Aged Care Association so we can use those things to inform both what the facilities are doing and also what ourselves as a ministry and the district health boards can continue to do to support them. I’ll just move on now to the cases for the day. I’m just finding the right piece of paper here. So today, the total number of COVID-19 cases increases by 17. This comprises eight new confirmed cases and nine new probable cases. There are now 628 cases of COVID-19 infection that we can confirm have recovered—an increase of 82 on yesterday’s number—and our recovered clearly now firmly dominate the cases overall. The new total combined number of confirmed and probable cases, therefore, today is 1,366. Today, there are 15 people in hospital—no change from yesterday. That includes three people in ICU—one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. The person in Dunedin hospital remains in a critical condition. Forty-eight percent of cases involve contact with confirmed case in New Zealand, including those in our clusters, while 39 percent have a link with overseas travel. Those that can be prescribed to community transmission are still just at 2 percent. Yesterday, 1,572 tests were processed which is, again, a low number. So the rolling seven day average is just over 3,000—3,039—and, in total, 64,399 tests have been undertaken. Just to comment on that, at this morning’s select committee hearing—the CBD select committee—the committee heard from Professor Brendan Murphy, who’s the chief medical officer in Australia. And, as part of his comments, he also commented on the quite big reduction in testing that has been happening in Australia over the last few days, and, like me, he ascribed this to the fact that because they’ve got quite physical distancing measures and people staying at home, there are just less respiratory viruses circulating in the community of all sorts. So it’s interesting to see that Australia is seeing a similar pattern to us and a big reduction, also, in testing there. So in saying that, I sent a message out to all our DHBs today, and we now have 70 community-based assessment centres, and I’ve suggested that they have a low threshold for testing anyone with respiratory symptoms over this coming week so that we can be sure that anyone with respiratory symptoms is not due to COVID-19. Our expectation is that cases will continue to remain low, but we want to be doubly sure, of course, that we are finding any cases that could be out there. You may well also have seen the reports that a number of DHBs are now using mobile testing, as well, to get out to communities who may not have direct access to those CBACs. So I think I’ll just leave my opening comments there, and I’m happy to open it up to questions. Media: Dr Bloomfield, there have been reports that patients at Burwood have been, effectively, left alone to die. Can you confirm that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, that certainly doesn’t match with comments I just shared from families of people who are being cared for; they’re, I think, in stark contrast. So that’s certainly not anything that’s been reported to me. Media: You talked about palliative of end-of-life care: they’re basically just being kept in a comfortable position before they die, is that right? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So end-of-life and palliative care is a very important part of the care that is provided in aged residential care facilities. Just to put this in context: about a third of our deaths in each year, annually, in New Zealand happen in aged residential care facilities, and the staff in those facilities are very well-trained in end-of-life and palliative care, and the residents who have been moved there would have been receiving that sort of care in this situation at Rosewood, and they are receiving very good quality care in Burwood. Media: Can you explain why the patients who have been moved to Burwood from Rosewood are so over-represented in the number of people who have died? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So two comments there. First of all, of course, the deaths that are occurring now are a result of infections that happened at least a week—mostly one, two, even three weeks ago. Secondly, it’s simply because this is a population where people are older—as I have mentioned today: two people in their 90s, one in their 80s—they’re already frail, they have very low reserves to be able to fight off these sorts of infections, so that’s why we are seeing them highly represented in the fatalities. Media: Were they chosen specifically to be moved to Burwood—was the most vulnerable group out of that group shifted? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It was because the infection was in the group that was in that psychogeriatric care unit that is part of a bigger facility. So there were no people—which is effectively closed off from the rest of the facility—and because of their high needs, and also because there were infections among staff members, it wasn’t possible for them to keep staffing it and provide the level of care and support that was needed for those people who were probable or confirmed cases. So that was the reason for shifting that group to Burwood. Media: Can I ask about that review, as well, that you talked about? Is that because you think that things might not have been done properly in some of these situations? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: More specifically it’s to look at—again, just put this in context, we’ve had a relatively small number of aged residential care facilities affected, and that’s testament, I think, to the work that has gone on right across the sector to prevent infections getting in in the first place. I think it’s just good practice, and now’s a good time to do it, as we’re informing what we need to be doing as we move out of alert level 4 down to alert level 3. And I think there will be things we can learn from what has happened, both in the facilities where there have been cases and also comparing those with some facilities where they haven’t, just to help strengthen and improve our efforts. Media: Do you, personally, think it’s acceptable for hospital management to be telling nurses that they can’t wear a mask at work? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Is there a specific example? If there’s a specific example you can provide me, I’m happy to follow up on that. Media: Yeah, we’ve heard of multiple examples of that happening. So is that acceptable to you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think what is really clear is the advice that district health boards have got and the message that has gone out. And I know that our district health board managers are very aware of what that advice is. And I’m confident that they will be using that advice to inform their conversations with staff. Media: A nurse at Burwood Hospital working on the COVID ward told us that she doesn’t have access to foot protection or hair covers. Would you personally be comfortable to go on the COVID ward at Burwood Hospital without full PPE? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can’t really talk about that specific example, but I’d be happy to look into that. The PPE that’s generally required doesn’t always include hair cover or foot covers, so I’d have to check as to what the situation was that that nurse was working in as to whether those were indicated. What I am confident is that the staff there will have access to the PPE they need depending on the role they play. Media: But given that this is where a number of our most vulnerable patients are with COVID-19, shouldn’t the full equipment be provided to those on the front line? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, and I’d be confident it would be, and what I can’t comment on is what the full equipment by be for that particular staff member in the role that he or she may be in at the time. Media: More than a third of the new cases between Wednesday and Sunday were of healthcare workers. How concerned are you about that jump in numbers, and what does that suggest, if anything, about transmission within hospitals or other healthcare facilities? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, thanks for that. Well, I’m concerned about any case in a healthcare worker, particularly where it happens in the workplace. And a couple of comments: one is we’ve got some information about the cases that are healthcare workers, and what I’ve asked the team for particular analysis of is, of the cases that have happened in the workplace, how was it that they were infected? So was that through being part of caring for someone or involved in the care of someone with COVID-19 or was it because they are part of a cluster where they may be a close contact of another staff member? I think that’s the important thing. And then, by understanding that, we can get a better understanding of what else we may need to do to help ensure that our staff are protected in whatever setting. Media: We’ve gone from the high 80s of new cases down to the high teens. Is it your perspective that New Zealand’s past the peak of new cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think it’s clear that we are past the peak under this alert level. The key information we’re looking for now is for each of those new cases, we want to know very quickly where have they come from? And if we can’t immediately link them to an extant case or cluster, then we need to do a pretty forensic analysis and find out very quickly where they’ve come from and have a very quick and close look at all the possible contacts there and put a ring-fence around it. So yes, we’ve passed the peak; that seems to be clear now. We will be more confident once we know about each of those new cases that has been appearing really from the last week and as we go into this week, and, also, if we continue to get reasonable testing rates of people with any symptoms and we’re still not finding additional cases, that will provide us with an even greater level of assurance. Media: And looking forward, when did you think, based on modelling that you’ve seen, when we’re going to get down to a level of maybe just nine or 10, or maybe one or two, three or four? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, as soon as possible, obviously, is what I would be looking for. And once we get down to that, not just the low number of cases, but are confident that through our testing we’re not identifying further cases that seem to be popping up out of nowhere rather than being linked to existing cases. That’s what we’re really looking for. Media: This morning at the select committee you spoke about testing in regions. Can you tell us more about that and when it started or has it started and where too? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, so the lab testing analysis we published last week, I’ve asked the team to get another extract today so we can update that. As of last week it was about 49,000 tests that they had analysed. Actually, it showed quite good spread across the regions with some lower testing rates in some regions, particularly around Whanganui District Health Board and Tairāwhiti District Health Board. So we’re looking to get the numbers of testing up there. And really, there’s good access to CBACs, and I know that both DHBs have been making sure that testing is widely available. What I’ve said to them and to all the DHBs is just have a really low threshold: so anyone with respiratory symptoms, whether upper respiratory symptoms—which could just be a sore throat or a runny nose—test those people anyway. They don’t necessary have to have lower respiratory tract symptoms—so a cough, or phlegm, or fever. Media: The man who passed away in Wellington hospital, was he related to the Ruby Princess incident at all? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, he wasn’t. Media: And the Ruby Princess cluster grew by two on Monday to 18. The two new cases are not in the Hawke’s Bay, I understand. So are those new cases people who were passengers on the ship, or are they believed to have been infected by the ship’s passengers or crew? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: The information I have—this was from yesterday—was that it was actually, I think, a tour guide and a household contact of that tour guide, and it is from Wellington. Media: Sir David Skegg says Cabinet could be playing Russian roulette with Kiwi lives when making a decision on the COVID-19 if we don’t ensure rapid contact tracing and complete surveillance testing. How confident are you that we won’t be in a risky, sort of, unclear position come Monday? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, we will make sure that we can provide really robust advice to Cabinet and that we are confident in the extent of and the pace of our contact tracing. We’ve got some analysis coming through about what the current speed is with which people who are contacts are identified and tested, and we’ve seen that time decline. I’m just waiting for the final information on that; and, likewise, I think Professor Sir David talked about the surveillance testing and making sure that we’ve been very deliberate about getting wide testing across a range of population groups, and that’s why we’re increasing the testing this week to complement the over 60,000 that we’ve already tested. So it’s about 1.1 percent of New Zealanders have been tested already, and we’re going to try and increase that further, just to get a really good picture. Media: Can you confirm that the private function cluster in Auckland was a stag party? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s my understanding. Media: Can I ask about contact tracing. Way back in the day when we had a small number of cases, you were able to do this to 100 percent accuracy—all the people with contacts. Do you have a rough figure for how many contacts are being traced now as we’ve got so many more cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That we’ve got so many more cases, did you say? Media: Well, we’ve got, like, 1,400 cases, or something like that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Right. Media: I’m talking about when we had 50 cases—you were able to trace all the contacts with 100 percent accuracy. Do you have a rough figure, ballpark figure, on how many contacts you’re able to trace now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That we’re able to trace now, so we’re able to trace—well, we’ve got 220 staff available to trace, so we would have the capacity to trace between 50 and 100 new cases per day. I would say the capacity now is around 100. What I can say is that, of course, our number of cases per day is now much smaller, and also the number of close contacts is, on average, around four to five, rather than what was a much higher number before the alert level 4 restrictions came in. So far, that close contact centre has traced several thousand people, but that’s over the two to three weeks since it was stood up. Media: Just regarding the app—the idea that we’re going to develop this app and it’s going to do a lot of that contact tracing for you through Bluetooth—how many percent of people would need to take up that app, in your view, for that to be effective? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yep, just to pick up the point about trace a lot of the people, actually, it will be very much supplementary. The fundamental way to identify and trace close contacts will still be the routine process we have, which will be better, because we’ll have that electronic and be able to link it to NHI. The Bluetooth and other apps will be supplementary to that. Professor Murphy talked about this, because Australia is looking at this, and their view is they would need to have over 80 percent of people using that technology. Now, that doesn’t mean, necessarily, they need to be using a single app, but they need to be using an app which can use that Bluetooth-type technology and exchange of information, so that when a case is identified, you can pull out the data from the person’s phone to find out what other phones they may have been close to during the infectious period. Media: Would the family of the man who died last night at Burwood want to know why they couldn’t put on PPE gear and be with him in his final moments? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, so I think this goes to the issue of the current approach under alert level 4, which is not to allow visitors to people in hospital. This is clearly a very distressing time for family members, and this is something I’ve asked my team to look at very specifically, is about the visiting policy for people who not just are dying, but others in hospital. And another example raised with me this morning in select committee, of course, is new mothers as well. So we are having another look at that and to see what are the things we could put in place to ensure that we could maintain the safety of both the person in hospital as well as the visitors and the staff there. So that’s being actively looked at. Media: The national distribution model is supposed to be rolled out today. Has that gone to plan, and can you give us a little bit more detail on how that will exactly work? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I can’t give you a lot of detail, I’m sorry. What I can say is that there are two elements to that national distribution. There’s the distribution from a single point out to the district health boards in the health sector. From there, they distribute on to the providers in their area. And then, separately, there’s a single distribution network for non-healthcare essential worker organisations, and that is happening in parallel to ensure that essential workforces who need PPE for their work are able to get it and it’s distributed out through that mechanism. Media: Does that come into effect today as planned—is that now being rolled out? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s my understanding, but I will check that, and we’ll make sure we include that in our media release that goes out subsequently. Media: Do you have any updates at all just on the chartered flights that were supposed to be bringing the stocks in? Do you have any numbers on how many flights are coming and what they’ve been bringing in? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Of PPE? Media: Yeah, of PPE. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: What I can say is that there was the order of the, I think, 40 million masks, and they have started to come in this week. So yes, they’re on the way. We’ll get some more detail about the exact flights and when they’re arriving. Media: Just a follow-up on the earlier question: if you changed the criteria around PPE for family members who have a loved one with COVID in a critical condition, do you recognise how devastating that will be for the families who weren’t able to be there with their loved ones who have died to date? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think, regardless of whether the policy has changed, it clearly has a big impact on families, and I can absolutely understand that. That’s one of the reasons why we want to look at it very specifically. The key priority here— Media: But shouldn’t that have been done much sooner, then? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We have all been doing things under alert level 4 that we felt were necessary to break the chain of transmission and stop, for the whole country, this sort of situation where we’ve seen in other countries that haven’t acted quickly and gone quite hard, as we have, because you end up with a much bigger problem. It’s not just access to loved ones; it’s the fact that we end up with many, many more cases and many, many more deaths. I really—you know, I genuinely, for someone who has had both parents pass away, I absolutely understand how people must be feeling, and that is why we are looking specifically at that policy. Media: Dr Bloomfield, you mentioned the Whangarei DHB and Tairāwhiti DHB as two DHBs with low testing. You said yesterday that the Tairāwhiti was one of the areas with low total cases of COVID-19. Is it possible that those low cases could actually be higher but it’s not identified because of the low testing in that area? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It’s possible. The testing numbers and rate are lower, and the positivity rate is lower, and I know that DHB is going to some lengths to go out and ensure that there is testing available to try and increase the number of tests. So that’s exactly what we want to rule out. We want to be sure that we’re not missing cases. Media: And so with the Tairāwhiti DHB and the Whanganui, why would their testing be lower than other DHBs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think the main reason for this is they simply have a lower number of cases, and that is because most of—well, actually, all of our cases have been associated with either people coming in from overseas and/or spread from those people. So all of our cases—ultimately, the index case was an import from overseas, so I think it’s just there has been less travel to those regions, particularly early on when we saw cases popping up in other places like in Auckland, like in Queenstown, or associated with events like the wedding in Bluff, where the link was to overseas travel as well. So I think that’s the reason, but we want to be assured that there are not cases out there that we’re missing, and that’s why we’re doing testing— Media: For a number of days now, you’ve been saying that this event in Auckland couldn’t be named because of privacy reasons. However, today you’ve outlined that it was a stag party. What changed to make you be able to tell us what exactly it was? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, that doesn’t change what it was—it was a private event. I was specifically asked the question, and I replied because I knew the information. Media: Can you name the latest rest home in Auckland that has a cluster? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Ah, no, I can’t, and I don’t have the name of that rest home. What I can say, though, is that that cluster includes—half the cases are involved in a rest home and half are in the community. And what’s not clear is just yet quite the relationship between that, and whether it originated in the rest home or it just happens to involve a rest home. As soon as we think it’s appropriate, we will name the rest home facility. Media: Can you tell us the number of cases and the condition of patients at the rest home? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t have that information, sorry. Media: Just a follow-up question, will you be providing rest homes with testing kits? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not testing kits per se. As I said, we’re having a very active discussion about appropriate use of testing, very low threshold for testing, and they wouldn’t need to have the testing kits per se. They may do the swabbing there or they may need someone to come in and do the swabbing. The testing would be done at one of our laboratories, and low threshold for testing any symptomatic resident, low threshold for testing any admission who may have symptoms, and also staff who may have symptoms suggestive of COVID. Media: Would it make sense to do widespread swabbing in rest homes? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It does if you’ve got an outbreak, but clearly the vast majority of our aged residential care facilities have not had COVID-19 cases, they’ve got excellent policies and procedures in place, and we’ll keep working with them to make sure we keep that the situation. Media: You worked for the World Health Organization previously. To what extent do you think its post-SARS guidance around border closures, specifically that they weren’t effective in dealing with the spread of that virus, influence any nations sort of delaying border closures in response to COVID-19? And, with the benefit of hindsight, do you think it was a mistake for countries or the WHO to lean on that post-SARS advice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s quite a big question. What I will say is that early on in this outbreak, even before it was declared as a pandemic, the WHO was asking countries to be thoughtful about the role of border closures but still saying it’s also up to you, and we saw many countries, in fact, implemented border closures. New Zealand was one of those, as was Australia and a number of other countries. What also became apparent—and one of the reasons our advice to the Government, and the Government moved quite quickly around the use of border restrictions and then closures, is because it became clear that this virus was quite different to the SARS virus in terms of its infectivity. And what we’ve seen, both here and overseas, is that it can spread so rapidly and it’s quite tricky as a virus. So I think what is clear is that border closures have been a really important part of countries, including our own, being able to maintain a very strong “keep it out, stamp it out” approach. So I am sure WHO will continue to review its own advice on this and also inform its future advice around managing these sorts of situations globally. Media: That patient that you mentioned in the North Shore in ICU, do you know the age of that person? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t have any more details on any of the people in ICU, I’m sorry. Media: Can anything be done and should anything be done about the unused capacity that’s opening up as the number of tests that’s being done declines? post-Cabinet press conference page 9 of 11 Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what I can say is it’s very good we’ve got the capacity we need, because testing will continue to be a really important part of our ability to stay confidently in lower levels of alert—so 3 or even 2—if we are able to test rapidly and identify early any cases of COVID-19. And so that would be, again, moving to having a low threshold for testing anyone who’s got respiratory symptoms. We’ve now got capacity to do over 6,000 tests should they be needed. Media: Are you not thinking—I suppose if we can do 6,000 and we’re doing 1,000, are you not thinking about every day putting that 5,000 window to use somewhere or opening up appropriately? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not for testing asymptomatic people. So what we now have is a situation where we’ve got capacity to test pretty much anyone who has got symptoms of a respiratory illness, so a low threshold for testing, and that is the most important—and also to have capacity to do quite wide testing where we get cases where we’re not sure what’s going on, and particularly in settings like a healthcare setting. Media: Would you encourage people with very minor symptoms then to go and get tested? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, if anyone’s got symptoms that they think may be suggestive, then there’s always a clinical assessment, but I think a low threshold—I think the clinician will always apply some judgment in these situations if it’s very, very clear there’s actually no risk of COVID-19 and the symptoms are not in the slightest bit suggestive, but at the moment we’d rather over test than under test, quite clearly. Media: [Inaudible] why the two people who died at Burwood weren’t sent to ICU in Christchurch? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Weren’t sent to ICU? Because they and their families—in discussions with clinicians, and, in fact, probably with the facility they were already in—would have already made a decision about whether they wanted active intervention, including ICU - type care, if they got into this situation. And, as I say, a third of people every year in New Zealand die in aged residential care facilities and the care they receive is appropriate for where they are and the decisions they’ve made about what sort of care they would like to receive. Media: Does the frailty of the residents at Burwood Hospital—or the rest home residents who were taken there—does that really limit, sort of, the medical interventions that can be made in terms of coronavirus? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Those people would receive all the medical interventions and care that was appropriate for them—to both relieve symptoms and, if appropriate, to treat their illness. However, they will have already had an agreement in place. And I should say also just a reminder that the medical care for those residents, while they are being looked after at Burwood, is still being overseen by the general practitioner who would look after them if they were still at Rosewood. Media: Just a follow up from Craig’s question, with the lower threshold in testing: what’s your message to the public? Is it if you have a runny nose or a tickly throat, you should go and get tested? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, the advice to the public is, if you have any symptoms you’re concerned about, ring Healthline, ring your GP, or you can go to the CBAC, and the locations of those are made available. That doesn’t mean you will automatically be tested, but, as I said, the message out to those running the CBACs is have a low threshold for testing for anyone with upper respiratory tract symptoms or lower respiratory tract symptoms. Media: Do you know, roughly, how many people were at that stag do? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t, sorry. Media: Do you know how many Air New Zealand staff have tested positive for COVID-19? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No. I don’t have that number. Would you like us to get that number? Media: That’d be great, thank you. Do you have wider concerns around airline staff as potential vectors? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t have concerns; what I have asked my team to look at is specifically, now we have the very strong border restrictions in place for every person who travels in other than airline staff to going into 14 days quarantine, effectively, to make sure that our position around our airline staff—what precautions they have to take—are still appropriate. And, having looked at the advice for airline staff, which is very thorough, I think precautions are appropriate to reduce the risk of them being infected and/or introducing infection into the country. Perhaps the last couple of questions. Media: You spoke this morning about ethnicity testing. Can you tell us a bit more about that and a bit about how sentinel testing—planning for that—is going? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: OK, on ethnicity, what we’ve seen from the testing to date is there’s quite good coverage across the different ethnic groups. It’s not exactly in proportion to the population, but it’s quite close. We will be looking, over this next week, for good spread of testing by both region and by ethnicity to make sure that we are not under-testing in certain populations. And the issue of sentinel testing is an interesting one, and I’m intending to follow up with Professor Murphy from Australia about what approach they are planning to take to sentinel testing. And, at the moment, the wide testing we are doing—and especially if we, essentially, are testing most people who have respiratory symptoms, you could argue is, in a way, almost population sentinel testing. The question is still about whether there is a need to test people without symptoms, and none of the advice we’ve received from all of the experts is that we should be doing that at this point. So it’s really having that low threshold for testing anybody with even low-level symptoms. Media: Are you totally ruling out, in the future, testing asymptomatic people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not at all. No. That may well play a place in the future, and it may be in two ways. It could be with the diagnostic testing, but, in particular, once we get antibody testing, that could play a role then in looking to test people who we think—or to see what level of past infection there has been in the population or to find out whether someone has been infected and therefore is over an infection. Media: You say that you have no concerns about airline staff. Have you seen that report that an airline staffer might be the index case in the Bluff cluster? And, if that’s the case, shouldn’t that person have simply stayed at home if she had symptoms? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah. I don’t think I said I have no concerns about airline staff. I think what we need to do is make sure that airline staff—the measures that they are taking are protecting both them and ensuring we’re not introducing cases into the country. That’s going to be very important. In the case of the Bluff cluster, what I can say is I know that the infection there originated from overseas, but I don’t have enough information to say whether it was one or another person or what the occupation of the person was. Media: Do you have any comment on—this morning, Australia says that they are able to contact trace cases within two to three days? Do you have an idea of when New Zealand will be at that capacity, and do we need to be at that capacity before lockdown is ended? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. We’re at that capacity now. We’re at that capacity with the current number of cases, or even more. What we want to make sure is that we have that capacity to do that even if we have a much larger number of cases, and that’s why we’ve trained extra people and also why we’re looking at the digital solutions as well. Look, thank you very much. I appreciate your ongoing interest and support. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Tēnā koutou katoa. Welcome to today’s briefing. Today I’m very, very sad to report four additional deaths linked to COVID-19 infection. One of those was in Wellington and three are additional deaths from the Rosewood cluster in Christchurch. This brings the total number of deaths in New Zealand to nine, six of which involve Rosewood residents being cared for at Burwood Hospital. So the deaths I’m updating you on today are of a man in his 90s at Burwood Hospital, a man in his 80s at Burwood, another man in his 90s at Burwood, and the fourth death was of a man in his 70s in Wellington Hospital, and that latter death was associated with overseas travel. We’ve previously signalled the underlying vulnerabilities of the Rosewood residents and that this group would continue to be at risk. That does make today’s news any less sad. This is the largest number of deaths we have reported on any day in New Zealand from COVID-19, and it is a sobering reminder of what is at stake here. I do want to acknowledge the families associated with these people who have passed and offer my sympathy and those, I think, of all New Zealanders and our support. Whether husbands, partners, fathers, grandfathers, brothers, uncles, cousins or friends, wherever they fit in their wider whānau, we are thinking of them and of you. I do ask that the privacy of families and friends associated with these deaths continues to be respected. And what I can say is that of the folk who died in Rosewood yesterday, they all had underlying conditions to some degree and were all confirmed cases of COVID-19. The man in Wellington was admitted to hospital on 22 March and has been quite unwell in ICU for some time. The district health board and staff have been working very closely with the man and his family over the time and will continue, of course, to provide support to the family. As I’ve said earlier on previous briefings, the Rosewood group was transferred from a high-level psychogeriatric or dementia unit. The care they have been receiving is very consistent with the high level of care they were receiving at Rosewood and would have been provided there, and that does include end of life and palliative care. And just before I make some more general remarks about what we are doing and how we’re working closely with the aged residential care sector, I just wanted to pass on some feedback we’ve had today from the family of a Rosewood resident at Burwood who could not speak highly enough of the nursing staff: “They’re just amazing, doing an incredible job. The communication with us was superb. We had lots of calls, including Facetime calls with Dad. We are so grateful.” And from another of the families: “We couldn’t speak more highly of the staff and care dad received both at Burwood and Rosewood. I skyped with dad and the nurse caring for him arranged for him to see a video the family had put together, and there were lots of phone calls.” So we know that aged residential care settings and facilities are very vulnerable—the populations there are very vulnerable if we get COVID-19 infection in those facilities. And so we have been particularly vigilant from early on in the presentation of this infection globally to work closely with aged residential care and act very quickly and pre-emptively. And what I would say is that we’ve had cases to date, or have cases, in six aged residential care facilities around the country, and this is out of a total of over 650 facilities nationwide. I mentioned yesterday and on the preceding day the excellent care and preparation that is in place across that sector, and the fact that we have had relatively few of our facilities affected by this virus, in quite stark contrast to many other countries, I think, is testament to the work they have been doing. And again, to emphasise, we’ve been working with them very closely from early on in this outbreak. We early on provided advice around ensuring nobody came to their facilities who had any respiratory symptoms at all. They put in place visitor policies—no-visiting policies—much sooner than we went into alert level 4. So I’d just like to outline some of the other measures we’re working with them on, just so people understand. Every new arrival into an aged residential care facility goes into isolation for 14 days. There are no shared meals happening in the facilities. As I said earlier on, and for some time, no visiting allowed at the moment. I’ve asked all our DHBs to work with each of the facilities in their region to ensure they have good policies, procedures; that they have access to PPE that they need and good supply lines; and to identify what other support those facilities may need to help ensure we keep that high level of care and of preventing COVID-19 getting into those facilities. There is a low threshold for testing of any residents who might be symptomatic; and, of any new arrivals, if they have any symptoms whatever, a precautionary approach is taken—they are tested and they are not allowed into the facility unless they have tested negative—and also a low threshold for testing staff. And, obviously, staff who are sick have to stay home, and there’s very careful observation of any symptoms of staff. In addition, we’re doing a number of other things, and last night I was on a video conference with the head of the Aged Care Association—both the chair and the chief executive—to talk about what else we are doing and can be doing with them. There will be announcements later in the week about funding for aged residential care to help offset some of the additional costs they are incurring to both prepare and look after people who may have or who do have COVID-19, for extra security and so on. We continue to work with them on making sure we are maximising the value of testing of both residents, of incoming admissions, and of staff. And I have also decided to commission a review of the rest home facilities—or the aged residential care facilities—where we have had cases, because in some of those instances the cases have been able to be bounded very quickly with no further transmission, and others we’ve seen just how tricky this virus is and that it can spread quite rapidly. So we think it’s a very good point in time to undertake a review of both the facilities where we have had cases—to learn about what’s worked well and where we could improve—but also to look at some facilities that might be similar where they haven’t had cases. And my hope is to do this in conjunction with the Aged Care Association so we can use those things to inform both what the facilities are doing and also what ourselves as a ministry and the district health boards can continue to do to support them. I’ll just move on now to the cases for the day. I’m just finding the right piece of paper here. So today, the total number of COVID-19 cases increases by 17. This comprises eight new confirmed cases and nine new probable cases. There are now 628 cases of COVID-19 infection that we can confirm have recovered—an increase of 82 on yesterday’s number—and our recovered clearly now firmly dominate the cases overall. The new total combined number of confirmed and probable cases, therefore, today is 1,366. Today, there are 15 people in hospital—no change from yesterday. That includes three people in ICU—one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. The person in Dunedin hospital remains in a critical condition. Forty-eight percent of cases involve contact with confirmed case in New Zealand, including those in our clusters, while 39 percent have a link with overseas travel. Those that can be prescribed to community transmission are still just at 2 percent. Yesterday, 1,572 tests were processed which is, again, a low number. So the rolling seven day average is just over 3,000—3,039—and, in total, 64,399 tests have been undertaken. Just to comment on that, at this morning’s select committee hearing—the CBD select committee—the committee heard from Professor Brendan Murphy, who’s the chief medical officer in Australia. And, as part of his comments, he also commented on the quite big reduction in testing that has been happening in Australia over the last few days, and, like me, he ascribed this to the fact that because they’ve got quite physical distancing measures and people staying at home, there are just less respiratory viruses circulating in the community of all sorts. So it’s interesting to see that Australia is seeing a similar pattern to us and a big reduction, also, in testing there. So in saying that, I sent a message out to all our DHBs today, and we now have 70 community-based assessment centres, and I’ve suggested that they have a low threshold for testing anyone with respiratory symptoms over this coming week so that we can be sure that anyone with respiratory symptoms is not due to COVID-19. Our expectation is that cases will continue to remain low, but we want to be doubly sure, of course, that we are finding any cases that could be out there. You may well also have seen the reports that a number of DHBs are now using mobile testing, as well, to get out to communities who may not have direct access to those CBACs. So I think I’ll just leave my opening comments there, and I’m happy to open it up to questions. Media: Dr Bloomfield, there have been reports that patients at Burwood have been, effectively, left alone to die. Can you confirm that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, that certainly doesn’t match with comments I just shared from families of people who are being cared for; they’re, I think, in stark contrast. So that’s certainly not anything that’s been reported to me. Media: You talked about palliative of end-of-life care: they’re basically just being kept in a comfortable position before they die, is that right? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So end-of-life and palliative care is a very important part of the care that is provided in aged residential care facilities. Just to put this in context: about a third of our deaths in each year, annually, in New Zealand happen in aged residential care facilities, and the staff in those facilities are very well-trained in end-of-life and palliative care, and the residents who have been moved there would have been receiving that sort of care in this situation at Rosewood, and they are receiving very good quality care in Burwood. Media: Can you explain why the patients who have been moved to Burwood from Rosewood are so over-represented in the number of people who have died? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So two comments there. First of all, of course, the deaths that are occurring now are a result of infections that happened at least a week—mostly one, two, even three weeks ago. Secondly, it’s simply because this is a population where people are older—as I have mentioned today: two people in their 90s, one in their 80s—they’re already frail, they have very low reserves to be able to fight off these sorts of infections, so that’s why we are seeing them highly represented in the fatalities. Media: Were they chosen specifically to be moved to Burwood—was the most vulnerable group out of that group shifted? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It was because the infection was in the group that was in that psychogeriatric care unit that is part of a bigger facility. So there were no people—which is effectively closed off from the rest of the facility—and because of their high needs, and also because there were infections among staff members, it wasn’t possible for them to keep staffing it and provide the level of care and support that was needed for those people who were probable or confirmed cases. So that was the reason for shifting that group to Burwood. Media: Can I ask about that review, as well, that you talked about? Is that because you think that things might not have been done properly in some of these situations? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: More specifically it’s to look at—again, just put this in context, we’ve had a relatively small number of aged residential care facilities affected, and that’s testament, I think, to the work that has gone on right across the sector to prevent infections getting in in the first place. I think it’s just good practice, and now’s a good time to do it, as we’re informing what we need to be doing as we move out of alert level 4 down to alert level 3. And I think there will be things we can learn from what has happened, both in the facilities where there have been cases and also comparing those with some facilities where they haven’t, just to help strengthen and improve our efforts. Media: Do you, personally, think it’s acceptable for hospital management to be telling nurses that they can’t wear a mask at work? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Is there a specific example? If there’s a specific example you can provide me, I’m happy to follow up on that. Media: Yeah, we’ve heard of multiple examples of that happening. So is that acceptable to you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think what is really clear is the advice that district health boards have got and the message that has gone out. And I know that our district health board managers are very aware of what that advice is. And I’m confident that they will be using that advice to inform their conversations with staff. Media: A nurse at Burwood Hospital working on the COVID ward told us that she doesn’t have access to foot protection or hair covers. Would you personally be comfortable to go on the COVID ward at Burwood Hospital without full PPE? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can’t really talk about that specific example, but I’d be happy to look into that. The PPE that’s generally required doesn’t always include hair cover or foot covers, so I’d have to check as to what the situation was that that nurse was working in as to whether those were indicated. What I am confident is that the staff there will have access to the PPE they need depending on the role they play. Media: But given that this is where a number of our most vulnerable patients are with COVID-19, shouldn’t the full equipment be provided to those on the front line? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, and I’d be confident it would be, and what I can’t comment on is what the full equipment by be for that particular staff member in the role that he or she may be in at the time. Media: More than a third of the new cases between Wednesday and Sunday were of healthcare workers. How concerned are you about that jump in numbers, and what does that suggest, if anything, about transmission within hospitals or other healthcare facilities? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, thanks for that. Well, I’m concerned about any case in a healthcare worker, particularly where it happens in the workplace. And a couple of comments: one is we’ve got some information about the cases that are healthcare workers, and what I’ve asked the team for particular analysis of is, of the cases that have happened in the workplace, how was it that they were infected? So was that through being part of caring for someone or involved in the care of someone with COVID-19 or was it because they are part of a cluster where they may be a close contact of another staff member? I think that’s the important thing. And then, by understanding that, we can get a better understanding of what else we may need to do to help ensure that our staff are protected in whatever setting. Media: We’ve gone from the high 80s of new cases down to the high teens. Is it your perspective that New Zealand’s past the peak of new cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think it’s clear that we are past the peak under this alert level. The key information we’re looking for now is for each of those new cases, we want to know very quickly where have they come from? And if we can’t immediately link them to an extant case or cluster, then we need to do a pretty forensic analysis and find out very quickly where they’ve come from and have a very quick and close look at all the possible contacts there and put a ring-fence around it. So yes, we’ve passed the peak; that seems to be clear now. We will be more confident once we know about each of those new cases that has been appearing really from the last week and as we go into this week, and, also, if we continue to get reasonable testing rates of people with any symptoms and we’re still not finding additional cases, that will provide us with an even greater level of assurance. Media: And looking forward, when did you think, based on modelling that you’ve seen, when we’re going to get down to a level of maybe just nine or 10, or maybe one or two, three or four? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, as soon as possible, obviously, is what I would be looking for. And once we get down to that, not just the low number of cases, but are confident that through our testing we’re not identifying further cases that seem to be popping up out of nowhere rather than being linked to existing cases. That’s what we’re really looking for. Media: This morning at the select committee you spoke about testing in regions. Can you tell us more about that and when it started or has it started and where too? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, so the lab testing analysis we published last week, I’ve asked the team to get another extract today so we can update that. As of last week it was about 49,000 tests that they had analysed. Actually, it showed quite good spread across the regions with some lower testing rates in some regions, particularly around Whanganui District Health Board and Tairāwhiti District Health Board. So we’re looking to get the numbers of testing up there. And really, there’s good access to CBACs, and I know that both DHBs have been making sure that testing is widely available. What I’ve said to them and to all the DHBs is just have a really low threshold: so anyone with respiratory symptoms, whether upper respiratory symptoms—which could just be a sore throat or a runny nose—test those people anyway. They don’t necessary have to have lower respiratory tract symptoms—so a cough, or phlegm, or fever. Media: The man who passed away in Wellington hospital, was he related to the Ruby Princess incident at all? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, he wasn’t. Media: And the Ruby Princess cluster grew by two on Monday to 18. The two new cases are not in the Hawke’s Bay, I understand. So are those new cases people who were passengers on the ship, or are they believed to have been infected by the ship’s passengers or crew? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: The information I have—this was from yesterday—was that it was actually, I think, a tour guide and a household contact of that tour guide, and it is from Wellington. Media: Sir David Skegg says Cabinet could be playing Russian roulette with Kiwi lives when making a decision on the COVID-19 if we don’t ensure rapid contact tracing and complete surveillance testing. How confident are you that we won’t be in a risky, sort of, unclear position come Monday? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, we will make sure that we can provide really robust advice to Cabinet and that we are confident in the extent of and the pace of our contact tracing. We’ve got some analysis coming through about what the current speed is with which people who are contacts are identified and tested, and we’ve seen that time decline. I’m just waiting for the final information on that; and, likewise, I think Professor Sir David talked about the surveillance testing and making sure that we’ve been very deliberate about getting wide testing across a range of population groups, and that’s why we’re increasing the testing this week to complement the over 60,000 that we’ve already tested. So it’s about 1.1 percent of New Zealanders have been tested already, and we’re going to try and increase that further, just to get a really good picture. Media: Can you confirm that the private function cluster in Auckland was a stag party? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s my understanding. Media: Can I ask about contact tracing. Way back in the day when we had a small number of cases, you were able to do this to 100 percent accuracy—all the people with contacts. Do you have a rough figure for how many contacts are being traced now as we’ve got so many more cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That we’ve got so many more cases, did you say? Media: Well, we’ve got, like, 1,400 cases, or something like that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Right. Media: I’m talking about when we had 50 cases—you were able to trace all the contacts with 100 percent accuracy. Do you have a rough figure, ballpark figure, on how many contacts you’re able to trace now? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That we’re able to trace now, so we’re able to trace—well, we’ve got 220 staff available to trace, so we would have the capacity to trace between 50 and 100 new cases per day. I would say the capacity now is around 100. What I can say is that, of course, our number of cases per day is now much smaller, and also the number of close contacts is, on average, around four to five, rather than what was a much higher number before the alert level 4 restrictions came in. So far, that close contact centre has traced several thousand people, but that’s over the two to three weeks since it was stood up. Media: Just regarding the app—the idea that we’re going to develop this app and it’s going to do a lot of that contact tracing for you through Bluetooth—how many percent of people would need to take up that app, in your view, for that to be effective? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yep, just to pick up the point about trace a lot of the people, actually, it will be very much supplementary. The fundamental way to identify and trace close contacts will still be the routine process we have, which will be better, because we’ll have that electronic and be able to link it to NHI. The Bluetooth and other apps will be supplementary to that. Professor Murphy talked about this, because Australia is looking at this, and their view is they would need to have over 80 percent of people using that technology. Now, that doesn’t mean, necessarily, they need to be using a single app, but they need to be using an app which can use that Bluetooth-type technology and exchange of information, so that when a case is identified, you can pull out the data from the person’s phone to find out what other phones they may have been close to during the infectious period. Media: Would the family of the man who died last night at Burwood want to know why they couldn’t put on PPE gear and be with him in his final moments? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, so I think this goes to the issue of the current approach under alert level 4, which is not to allow visitors to people in hospital. This is clearly a very distressing time for family members, and this is something I’ve asked my team to look at very specifically, is about the visiting policy for people who not just are dying, but others in hospital. And another example raised with me this morning in select committee, of course, is new mothers as well. So we are having another look at that and to see what are the things we could put in place to ensure that we could maintain the safety of both the person in hospital as well as the visitors and the staff there. So that’s being actively looked at. Media: The national distribution model is supposed to be rolled out today. Has that gone to plan, and can you give us a little bit more detail on how that will exactly work? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I can’t give you a lot of detail, I’m sorry. What I can say is that there are two elements to that national distribution. There’s the distribution from a single point out to the district health boards in the health sector. From there, they distribute on to the providers in their area. And then, separately, there’s a single distribution network for non-healthcare essential worker organisations, and that is happening in parallel to ensure that essential workforces who need PPE for their work are able to get it and it’s distributed out through that mechanism. Media: Does that come into effect today as planned—is that now being rolled out? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s my understanding, but I will check that, and we’ll make sure we include that in our media release that goes out subsequently. Media: Do you have any updates at all just on the chartered flights that were supposed to be bringing the stocks in? Do you have any numbers on how many flights are coming and what they’ve been bringing in? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Of PPE? Media: Yeah, of PPE. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: What I can say is that there was the order of the, I think, 40 million masks, and they have started to come in this week. So yes, they’re on the way. We’ll get some more detail about the exact flights and when they’re arriving. Media: Just a follow-up on the earlier question: if you changed the criteria around PPE for family members who have a loved one with COVID in a critical condition, do you recognise how devastating that will be for the families who weren’t able to be there with their loved ones who have died to date? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think, regardless of whether the policy has changed, it clearly has a big impact on families, and I can absolutely understand that. That’s one of the reasons why we want to look at it very specifically. The key priority here— Media: But shouldn’t that have been done much sooner, then? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We have all been doing things under alert level 4 that we felt were necessary to break the chain of transmission and stop, for the whole country, this sort of situation where we’ve seen in other countries that haven’t acted quickly and gone quite hard, as we have, because you end up with a much bigger problem. It’s not just access to loved ones; it’s the fact that we end up with many, many more cases and many, many more deaths. I really—you know, I genuinely, for someone who has had both parents pass away, I absolutely understand how people must be feeling, and that is why we are looking specifically at that policy. Media: Dr Bloomfield, you mentioned the Whangarei DHB and Tairāwhiti DHB as two DHBs with low testing. You said yesterday that the Tairāwhiti was one of the areas with low total cases of COVID-19. Is it possible that those low cases could actually be higher but it’s not identified because of the low testing in that area? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It’s possible. The testing numbers and rate are lower, and the positivity rate is lower, and I know that DHB is going to some lengths to go out and ensure that there is testing available to try and increase the number of tests. So that’s exactly what we want to rule out. We want to be sure that we’re not missing cases. Media: And so with the Tairāwhiti DHB and the Whanganui, why would their testing be lower than other DHBs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think the main reason for this is they simply have a lower number of cases, and that is because most of—well, actually, all of our cases have been associated with either people coming in from overseas and/or spread from those people. So all of our cases—ultimately, the index case was an import from overseas, so I think it’s just there has been less travel to those regions, particularly early on when we saw cases popping up in other places like in Auckland, like in Queenstown, or associated with events like the wedding in Bluff, where the link was to overseas travel as well. So I think that’s the reason, but we want to be assured that there are not cases out there that we’re missing, and that’s why we’re doing testing— Media: For a number of days now, you’ve been saying that this event in Auckland couldn’t be named because of privacy reasons. However, today you’ve outlined that it was a stag party. What changed to make you be able to tell us what exactly it was? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, that doesn’t change what it was—it was a private event. I was specifically asked the question, and I replied because I knew the information. Media: Can you name the latest rest home in Auckland that has a cluster? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Ah, no, I can’t, and I don’t have the name of that rest home. What I can say, though, is that that cluster includes—half the cases are involved in a rest home and half are in the community. And what’s not clear is just yet quite the relationship between that, and whether it originated in the rest home or it just happens to involve a rest home. As soon as we think it’s appropriate, we will name the rest home facility. Media: Can you tell us the number of cases and the condition of patients at the rest home? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t have that information, sorry. Media: Just a follow-up question, will you be providing rest homes with testing kits? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not testing kits per se. As I said, we’re having a very active discussion about appropriate use of testing, very low threshold for testing, and they wouldn’t need to have the testing kits per se. They may do the swabbing there or they may need someone to come in and do the swabbing. The testing would be done at one of our laboratories, and low threshold for testing any symptomatic resident, low threshold for testing any admission who may have symptoms, and also staff who may have symptoms suggestive of COVID. Media: Would it make sense to do widespread swabbing in rest homes? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It does if you’ve got an outbreak, but clearly the vast majority of our aged residential care facilities have not had COVID-19 cases, they’ve got excellent policies and procedures in place, and we’ll keep working with them to make sure we keep that the situation. Media: You worked for the World Health Organization previously. To what extent do you think its post-SARS guidance around border closures, specifically that they weren’t effective in dealing with the spread of that virus, influence any nations sort of delaying border closures in response to COVID-19? And, with the benefit of hindsight, do you think it was a mistake for countries or the WHO to lean on that post-SARS advice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s quite a big question. What I will say is that early on in this outbreak, even before it was declared as a pandemic, the WHO was asking countries to be thoughtful about the role of border closures but still saying it’s also up to you, and we saw many countries, in fact, implemented border closures. New Zealand was one of those, as was Australia and a number of other countries. What also became apparent—and one of the reasons our advice to the Government, and the Government moved quite quickly around the use of border restrictions and then closures, is because it became clear that this virus was quite different to the SARS virus in terms of its infectivity. And what we’ve seen, both here and overseas, is that it can spread so rapidly and it’s quite tricky as a virus. So I think what is clear is that border closures have been a really important part of countries, including our own, being able to maintain a very strong “keep it out, stamp it out” approach. So I am sure WHO will continue to review its own advice on this and also inform its future advice around managing these sorts of situations globally. Media: That patient that you mentioned in the North Shore in ICU, do you know the age of that person? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t have any more details on any of the people in ICU, I’m sorry. Media: Can anything be done and should anything be done about the unused capacity that’s opening up as the number of tests that’s being done declines? post-Cabinet press conference page 9 of 11 Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what I can say is it’s very good we’ve got the capacity we need, because testing will continue to be a really important part of our ability to stay confidently in lower levels of alert—so 3 or even 2—if we are able to test rapidly and identify early any cases of COVID-19. And so that would be, again, moving to having a low threshold for testing anyone who’s got respiratory symptoms. We’ve now got capacity to do over 6,000 tests should they be needed. Media: Are you not thinking—I suppose if we can do 6,000 and we’re doing 1,000, are you not thinking about every day putting that 5,000 window to use somewhere or opening up appropriately? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not for testing asymptomatic people. So what we now have is a situation where we’ve got capacity to test pretty much anyone who has got symptoms of a respiratory illness, so a low threshold for testing, and that is the most important—and also to have capacity to do quite wide testing where we get cases where we’re not sure what’s going on, and particularly in settings like a healthcare setting. Media: Would you encourage people with very minor symptoms then to go and get tested? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, if anyone’s got symptoms that they think may be suggestive, then there’s always a clinical assessment, but I think a low threshold—I think the clinician will always apply some judgment in these situations if it’s very, very clear there’s actually no risk of COVID-19 and the symptoms are not in the slightest bit suggestive, but at the moment we’d rather over test than under test, quite clearly. Media: [Inaudible] why the two people who died at Burwood weren’t sent to ICU in Christchurch? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Weren’t sent to ICU? Because they and their families—in discussions with clinicians, and, in fact, probably with the facility they were already in—would have already made a decision about whether they wanted active intervention, including ICU - type care, if they got into this situation. And, as I say, a third of people every year in New Zealand die in aged residential care facilities and the care they receive is appropriate for where they are and the decisions they’ve made about what sort of care they would like to receive. Media: Does the frailty of the residents at Burwood Hospital—or the rest home residents who were taken there—does that really limit, sort of, the medical interventions that can be made in terms of coronavirus? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Those people would receive all the medical interventions and care that was appropriate for them—to both relieve symptoms and, if appropriate, to treat their illness. However, they will have already had an agreement in place. And I should say also just a reminder that the medical care for those residents, while they are being looked after at Burwood, is still being overseen by the general practitioner who would look after them if they were still at Rosewood. Media: Just a follow up from Craig’s question, with the lower threshold in testing: what’s your message to the public? Is it if you have a runny nose or a tickly throat, you should go and get tested? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, the advice to the public is, if you have any symptoms you’re concerned about, ring Healthline, ring your GP, or you can go to the CBAC, and the locations of those are made available. That doesn’t mean you will automatically be tested, but, as I said, the message out to those running the CBACs is have a low threshold for testing for anyone with upper respiratory tract symptoms or lower respiratory tract symptoms. Media: Do you know, roughly, how many people were at that stag do? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t, sorry. Media: Do you know how many Air New Zealand staff have tested positive for COVID-19? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No. I don’t have that number. Would you like us to get that number? Media: That’d be great, thank you. Do you have wider concerns around airline staff as potential vectors? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t have concerns; what I have asked my team to look at is specifically, now we have the very strong border restrictions in place for every person who travels in other than airline staff to going into 14 days quarantine, effectively, to make sure that our position around our airline staff—what precautions they have to take—are still appropriate. And, having looked at the advice for airline staff, which is very thorough, I think precautions are appropriate to reduce the risk of them being infected and/or introducing infection into the country. Perhaps the last couple of questions. Media: You spoke this morning about ethnicity testing. Can you tell us a bit more about that and a bit about how sentinel testing—planning for that—is going? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: OK, on ethnicity, what we’ve seen from the testing to date is there’s quite good coverage across the different ethnic groups. It’s not exactly in proportion to the population, but it’s quite close. We will be looking, over this next week, for good spread of testing by both region and by ethnicity to make sure that we are not under-testing in certain populations. And the issue of sentinel testing is an interesting one, and I’m intending to follow up with Professor Murphy from Australia about what approach they are planning to take to sentinel testing. And, at the moment, the wide testing we are doing—and especially if we, essentially, are testing most people who have respiratory symptoms, you could argue is, in a way, almost population sentinel testing. The question is still about whether there is a need to test people without symptoms, and none of the advice we’ve received from all of the experts is that we should be doing that at this point. So it’s really having that low threshold for testing anybody with even low-level symptoms. Media: Are you totally ruling out, in the future, testing asymptomatic people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not at all. No. That may well play a place in the future, and it may be in two ways. It could be with the diagnostic testing, but, in particular, once we get antibody testing, that could play a role then in looking to test people who we think—or to see what level of past infection there has been in the population or to find out whether someone has been infected and therefore is over an infection. Media: You say that you have no concerns about airline staff. Have you seen that report that an airline staffer might be the index case in the Bluff cluster? And, if that’s the case, shouldn’t that person have simply stayed at home if she had symptoms? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah. I don’t think I said I have no concerns about airline staff. I think what we need to do is make sure that airline staff—the measures that they are taking are protecting both them and ensuring we’re not introducing cases into the country. That’s going to be very important. In the case of the Bluff cluster, what I can say is I know that the infection there originated from overseas, but I don’t have enough information to say whether it was one or another person or what the occupation of the person was. Media: Do you have any comment on—this morning, Australia says that they are able to contact trace cases within two to three days? Do you have an idea of when New Zealand will be at that capacity, and do we need to be at that capacity before lockdown is ended? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. We’re at that capacity now. We’re at that capacity with the current number of cases, or even more. What we want to make sure is that we have that capacity to do that even if we have a much larger number of cases, and that’s why we’ve trained extra people and also why we’re looking at the digital solutions as well. Look, thank you very much. I appreciate your ongoing interest and support. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of officials' COVID-19 media conference – 14 April Transcript of ministers' COVID-19 media conference – 14 April
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials started at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference.
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 16 April --- Section Separator --- PM : Kia ora koutou katoa, everyone. Welcome to today’s update. We’ll start with our usual update from Dr Bloomfield, after which I’ll share some of the additional work that has been done on alert levels over the past few weeks. I will forewarn you, my section will be a little bit longer than usual, but I’m sure you’ll all appreciate why. First of all, Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. So, today, New Zealand’s total number of COVID-19 cases has increased by 15—this comprises six new confirmed cases and nine new probable cases. There are no further deaths to report today. There are now 770 reported cases of COVID-19 who have recovered from their infection, an increase of 42 on yesterday, and the new combined total of confirmed and probable cases is 1,401. Today, there are 12 people in hospital, and three of these people are in ICU: Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. Two of those people are in a critical condition. As of today, just 4 percent of cases are now classified as under investigation. And I’ve been saying for the last few days that the cases we’re particularly interested in are the ones that have happened, really, since lockdown, and to be able to be very certain about the origin of the infection in those cases. So, as of yesterday, we had 23 cases since 24 March that were still categorised as being under investigation. This morning, my team has worked hard with the public health units to find out more about those cases. We’ve been able to confirm now that five of those cases are due to overseas exposure and 13 are contacts of confirmed cases, including someone who may be part of a known cluster or linked to someone who has travelled from overseas. Four of the cases have now been classed as community acquired, and just one case is still under investigation—and that is actually a case from yesterday. So this is a very important part of the information we need now to be able to inform a decision around whether we are in a position to step down from alert level 4, and it’s very good that we are now doing this very detailed analysis on every new case. And I will, later today, have more information on the cases that we are reporting today—those additional cases today, 15 cases. Yesterday in the labs, they processed 3,661 tests—that’s another big jump up—and there’s a lot of testing now happening around the country. So the total tests undertaken to date is 70,160. There’s also some specific targeted sentinel testing going on, and this morning in Queenstown at a supermarket, 300 people are being swabbed from the community to inform our understanding and build the picture of whether there is any community transmission happening in Queenstown; it was one the areas of concern. And we are also looking actively at two or three other places around the country where this will happen. The testing numbers also include two new laboratories that have come online, including the Medlab Central in Palmerston North and the Nelson-Marlborough laboratory. Today, there are still 16 significant clusters—no change from yesterday—and 11 of the new cases are connected to those clusters. Finally, just an update on the death that I spoke about yesterday in Invercargill: a post-mortem process is now underway, and when I have the findings of that, I will provide further information. Thank you, PM. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Three and a half weeks ago, New Zealand was in a unique position. Unlike other countries, we had enough lead-in before COVID-19 reached our shores. That meant we could make a choice: we could allow a wave of devastation to hit us, like it has in other countries, or we could take decisive, pre-emptive action by going hard and early into lockdown to stop the spread of the disease in its tracks. We chose action, and the indications at this stage are promising. We will never know what would’ve happened if we’d taken the first path, but the projections were for thousands of deaths if the virus got away on us, many more sick and in hospital, and the country and our economy grinding to a halt regardless. We should not confuse the success of our actions with overreaction, and there is plenty of proof around the world of the devastating result of responding too late. New Zealanders’ collective actions and unity at level 4 has put us in the rare position where we can make choices about our next steps—because our fight hasn’t just been against health impacts; it’s been about stopping COVID from taking people’s livelihoods, too. Our best economic strategy is still to win the fight against the virus—eliminate it—and that means we get out of prolonged restrictions on the way we live our lives sooner, and move business into recovery sooner. Overall, we have made a good start, but we need to keep going, and that means we need to start preparing for what could come next. Today, as promised, I will share more information about what life will look like at different COVID-19 alert levels. While I’ll focus mainly on level 3, as that’s the next step we will move to in time, information is also being made available today on levels 2 and level 1. The first thing I want to really emphasise—and I cannot emphasise this enough—what I’m talking about today in no way foreshadows the decision that we’ll be taking on Monday regarding the current lockdown. Today is instead about giving time for business, and, in fact, everyone, to think about what the different alert levels will mean for them, so when it comes time to move, we will be ready to move. Secondly, we will step down to level 3 in a way that is consistent with our goal to eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. The last thing we want to do when moving levels is give away the gains that we have won in lockdown, so that means that we will be considering seriously all of the data and information that we present daily to you as a Cabinet when we come to make that decision. But let me start, then, with the principles of alert level 3. As the alert level system makes clear, and you’ll remember the table we used when we first announced that, different levels allow different amounts of contact with one another, depending on how bad the spread of COVID-19 is. At alert level 4, the aim is to eliminate contact with each other, and that is what a full lockdown achieves. At level 3—restrict—there is still a high risk the virus can get out of control and bounce back, as we’ve seen in countries overseas, so the goal remains to restrict contact with one another as much as possible. That is why I recently described level 3 as the waiting room, or something like a recovery room. We have to wait and see if what we have done has worked. After a while, if we don’t show further signs of illness, we can go back to a life that is a bit more normal, which is what alert level 2 really starts to feel like. If we deteriorate, then it’s back to lockdown, at level 4. And just like when you’re recovering from an illness, you still primarily stay home, and that’s the same message at level 3: stay home; save lives. It remains the most effective way to break the chain of transmission. There are some key differences, though, based on assessments of public health risk and evidence from overseas, aimed to help people and business to move forward while we are still in the recovery room. Firstly, keep your bubble. The more we can limit the new people everyone is exposed to, the better. But at level 3, you can expand your bubble a small amount. If you have a caregiver that you need in your life, children who might be in a shared care arrangement, a de facto partner who is caring for others, or you’re a single person who wants the company of a sibling, for example, you can extend your bubble. Keep it exclusive, though; keep it small. Secondly, the principle for businesses and workplaces at level 3 moves from essential operations only to safe operations only. We still want to reduce contact with one another, so you must work from home if you can. If you cannot, because you work in an area like forestry or construction, you can return to your place of work if you apply the health and safety expectations we have established for COVID-19—in the same way that businesses currently operating have. That includes things like social distancing and good hygiene practices. The same applies for those who work in people’s homes, like furniture removal, electricians, or plumbers—you can return to work, but keep your distance from your customers. There are, however, some businesses that cannot open in their usual way because it involves far too much contact on too large a scale with members of the public. Public-facing bars, restaurants, and cafes remain closed, and so do malls and retail stores. But, unlike level 4, food delivery, drive-through, online shopping, or options like click and collect shopping can begin. The key principle here is simple: you cannot engage in face-to-face transactions, so use your phone, use your computer, use your car, or use an app. There is a high level of responsibility that comes with reopening many businesses in this way, and it isn’t without risk. We’ve consulted with major sectors like hospitality and retail on these changes, and we are working with other sectors on industry-specific guidelines to minimise risk, but at level 3 we cautiously start opening up our economy, albeit with significant mitigations. I know there’ll be a number of questions around other businesses that you’ll have. I can assure you that in the more detailed guidance that is available, some of those questions will certainly be answered. Thirdly, at level 3 there will be a partial reopening of education. Early childhood centres and schools will be available, up to and including year 10 only, but attendance is purely voluntary. Our intention here is to create a place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, but to do so safely. Children will be kept in their own school bubbles: small groups to try and limit their exposure to too many other children each day. For children who are able to, we still encourage them to remain home and be part of distance learning. Tertiary education will mostly be through distance learning, but with the exception of on-campus research that can’t be done off campus, such as lab work and practical, hands-on learning such as trade courses, where the learning can happen in small groups with appropriate physical distancing. Courses where close contact is unavoidable will remain online only. Travel restrictions remain. Previously, we have talked about keeping it local. At level 3, we will ask that you keep it regional. The principle here is that we know at level 3 more people will travel to work or to take children to school. We don’t, however, want to take potential COVID cases into other parts of the country, so restricting movement to only what is necessary is still the goal here. When it comes to recreation, the principles also remain simple: keep it alone or in your bubble, keep it low risk, and also keep it non-motorised. That means we are still excluding things like boating and jet skis. That’s simply because we know from the statistics these are still prone to accidents or breakdowns that can lead you to have contact with others. But there are other activities which you can undertake by yourself or within your bubble that we will be permitting: you can swim, you can surf, you can fish from the shore. However, I do want to add a word of caution here. Now is not the time to take up a new activity that you have never done before—it is too risky. The whole point at this level is to continue to really reduce down, as I’ve said before, your contact with others. If there is any sign of congregation, we will not hesitate to review these changes. So please, do not rush to places where others may congregate as well and treat it as a reunion with your long-lost swimming buddies. At level 3, the principle of reducing contacts remains. So that means tough calls still on life events. Funerals will be able to go ahead, but they will not be able to have any more than 10 people—that includes for tangi as well. For weddings, the same number applies, but they can only be services; no meals, food, or receptions can take place. We’re simply suggesting here that for those who wish to take part in a legal ceremony, they are able to. Sadly, level 3 is about reducing risks, and as you will have seen from some of our devastating clusters, life events means a major risk and only require one person to be carrying the illness to spread it to dozens of others. Finally, you’ll see from the description of level 3 there are more opportunities for you to come into contact with people outside your bubble. As a general rule of thumb, the goal of keeping two metres away from each other still applies. That’s the gold standard. And for anyone who’s ever wondered why, that’s the distance you need from someone who may potentially be symptomatic if you are to remain away any potentially dangerous things like sneezes, droplets, coughs, and so on. However, in some places, that will be more difficult. If you are in a workplace or an education facility, for instance—places, however, where we will be able to contact trace the people around you. Then, in these circumstances, one metre can apply. That’s in keeping with the World Health Organization’s recommendations of distance for someone who does not have symptoms. So, again, if it’s people you know and that we can find if we need to, then one metre is a rule that we can apply in those circumstances. Fundamentally, though, the more distance the better, particularly when it comes to strangers. In fact, now more than ever, as you come into contact with more people, we must keep our distance, wash our hands, keep yourself and your bubble safe, continue to act like you have COVID, and, I would add, to act like those around you and near you may have it too. Keep a note of where you have been, when you have been there, and who with. It will help if we ever find ourselves contacting you because of a potential COVID case. Small changes like this will make the world of difference. There is extra risk and a high level of trust and responsibility that comes at level 3, if and when we move to it. The success of our lockdown and the majority of people showing that they can follow the rules gives me confidence that the same level of discipline to keeping to the rules at level 3 continues to apply, if not more. There’ll no doubt be additional questions beyond the broad overview I’ve given today, and as I’ve said, details are available at the COVID website and include much more of a description around some of what I’ve talked about. It does not mean we’ll necessarily be able to provide every answer to every single scenario. We have given ourselves time, though, so if you’re a business, in particular, and you need a question answered, please do reach out to MBIE for further information. All workplaces, though, should begin to work on a plan for how they are managing risks and protecting workers and customers under COVID alert level 3, and these need to be made available at a worksite so staff can see what steps you as an employer are taking. We’ll also be providing support for businesses to do this through a self-accreditation scheme of sorts, available online, and I’ll say more about that next week. Ultimately, level 3 is a progression. It’s not a rush to normality. Many things will feel the same as they do now. It is not until level 2 that there is significantly lower risk to public health and where there can be a significant loosening of controls on people’s movement and your ability to socialise with one another. But there is a reason for that. We want to get to that place sooner, and when we get there, we want to stay there. In fact, Treasury modelling tells us that we are better off in the longer term to stay in levels 4 and 3 a bit longer now and defeat the virus rather than moving too quickly and having to move backwards and forwards between the levels or stay in them longer overall. We have the opportunity to do something no other country has achieved—elimination of the virus—but it will continue to need a team of five million behind it. Under lockdown, we’ve shown our ability to put in place a virtual wall that is breaking the chain of transmission. Our new line of defence when we reach level 3 is common sense, following the rules, and trusting one another, and I believe we can do that. We’re now happy to take your questions. Media : Prime Minister, if we do move to level 3, under what circumstances would you move us back into lockdown, and how quickly could you do that? PM : Again, we won’t take that decision lightly, and I do want to, for those who’ve joined midway through the broadcast, just again remind that I’m setting out the broad parameters for level 3; I’m not announcing here today that we’re moving to it. When we make that decision, though, we want to do it with enough confidence that we won’t be moving back in the short term or the near term into lockdown, because we do want consistency. We want a progression down, not a progression back. Media : You’ve talked about Treasury modelling and the need to stay in level 3 and 4 for longer because that prevents us needing to go backwards and forwards but, realistically, how soon do you think we could move into that more normal level 2 stage? PM : My hope is that if we get level 4 right, we then progress down through level 3 and we continue to see success. Of course, we would hope to do that in shorter periods of time. I think, actually, our bar, really, though, is what we see overseas. Some countries are in lockdown for up to two months. Our goal is not to have heavy level of restrictions on our movements for long periods of time. That’s because we will have got the health answer right, and that, in turn, supports business and our economy. Media : On the schools, why have you decided to make it a voluntary thing rather than just allowing kids of essential workers to go? PM : Essentially, essential work, though, is now joined by a group of other workers, so there will be a wider range of individuals returning to the workforce—essentially, those who cannot work from home. So we do need to make sure that there’s provision available for their children to be cared for while they’re learning. It is voluntary, though. We do still encourage children, if they can, to be at home, but we will not be applying a test to every individual child as to why they’re being brought to school, and so that choice there remains. But with a smaller number of children in our schools, which we do anticipate and which is what has happened overseas, that allows us to keep our young people in groups, and that’s also in part because we won’t have our full high school cohort back. We’ve brought back those who legally do need to be supervised, but they won’t be, for instance, moving around a large number of other students. That helps us if we ever do need to undertake contact tracing. Media : What was the rationale behind only allowing children up to year 10? PM : The reason for allowing up to and including year 10 is because that covers children up to the age of 14, who, of course, by law do need to be supervised by adults and cannot be left home alone. So that means parents who do need to return to their workplace, who cannot work from home or have no other caregiving options, will have the opportunity to have their child go back into school, but we expect smaller numbers, which will enable us to keep those children in smaller groups rather than moving around large numbers of other children. So, essentially, they’ll have a school bubble, and that helps us with the tracking of any potential cases. We’re very aware, though, that parents will have concerns about their children re-entering education, so we’re doing that in a managed way, in a way where we can manage their safety and the safety of our teachers. Media : Prime Minister, how confident are you that these alert level 3 measures could be policed once it gets to that point? PM : It is fair to say that lockdown is a much easier thing to enforce—it’s much more black and white. It means that, basically, there’s very few reasons why anyone is leaving their home, and you, essentially, can make a judgment over whether or not that is the reason people are out and about. At alert level 3, we will have more people transporting children to school, travelling to work themselves, and so it does require a lot more responsibility on the part of every New Zealander. But I believe that, as a team of 5 million looking after each other, that we will follow through on that, that we will want to make sure that we’re successful, and so I have confidence in New Zealanders. Media : Once we get to that point, how long do you anticipate we could stay in level 3? PM : Well, we will give an indication of that at the time that we make decisions, and I want to do that in order to really give people a sense—to give them an expectation. But you will have seen what we’ve tended to use are the cycles of transmission, so one cycle is two weeks, two cycles is a month, and so we’ll tend to look in blocks that are around cycles of transmission, because there’s an evidence base behind why we do that, and it can tell us how we’re doing as a nation. Media : How will businesses know whether they’re able to trade? Do they have to apply and prove anything, or do they just trade and hope they’re doing it right? PM : So as you will have heard me say, we’re moving from just essential services now to those who can operate safely, so we expect—just as we have for those who are already operating—that businesses will put in place hygiene, cleaning regimes, and social distancing within their workplaces. We’ll be putting in place some support through MBIE— and I’ll say more on that next week—to help people self-accredit and to be able to formulate a worksite plan that they will have to make available at their worksite for employees and customers. We have had, to date, MBIE undertaking an audit regime of sorts. We will have a larger scale of businesses going back, so it won’t be possible to do that with everyone who’s returning. That’s why we’ll be using that accreditation regime. Media : Will Parliament operate under level 3? PM : Business Committee will be meeting tomorrow, I believe it is, to discuss some of the expectations for Parliament under the different alert levels. So that’s an area where I’ve always been keen to let the Business Committee, a cross-section of MPs and parties, to make those decisions, under the leadership of the Speaker. So we’ll incorporate that into the levels once that work’s done. Media : In terms of wider health services, such as physios, dentists, companies like that, what level would they be able to reopen for non-emergency work? PM : Yeah, so some of the health framework—that’s one area where we’re continuing to do a bit more detailed work. I expect that will be released in the next 48 hours, but that’s one area—because the individual DHBs, as well as some of the services you’ve mentioned, are needing to determine the way they treat electives and so on at the different alert levels. We want consistency, so Health will be releasing that within, I’d say, the next 48 hours. Anything you want to add on that, Dr Bloomfield? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just a quick comment, Prime Minister. So, yes, the principle in the hospitals will be to do as much care as possible while keeping people safe—both staff and any patients accessing services. In terms of the community, similar to now, primary care will continue to be open, using virtual consultations as much as possible, but also dental and allied health, which is the physio example you’ve used, will be permitted to do so. But, again, the key public health principles of alert level 3 are very clear: first of all, to reduce the likelihood someone gets infected, and, secondly, if someone does get infected, reduce the number of people to whom they’re exposed so that it’s much easier, then, to contact trace and ring-fence any infections. PM : Dental, of course, have PPE provisions in place that, of course, add that extra layer of protection, as well. Media : How many extra businesses did MBIE say would likely go back to work? PM : Running from my recollection here, which was, I believe, of individuals rather than businesses—there’s been assumptions made around roughly half a million New Zealanders, potentially, being out in essential work services and so on. My recollection is that that roughly doubles at alert level 3. As you can imagine, it’s quite hard to predict, or quite hard to make an estimate, and that’s more about employees rather than businesses. Media : You specifically said about forestry and retail and hospitality—what about the likes of construction, the manufacturing workforce? PM : Yes, yes. So all of that comes back into play. We do have expectations, though, around them implementing the same expectations we have around those existing services that are already operating. There is already food production going on, and so there will be things that MPI and MBIE have learnt from those processes that they’ll now be applying and sharing with others who’ll be returning to manufacturing. Media : How much is getting those businesses back up and running going to factor into whether we come out of alert level 4? PM : I think the last thing that those businesses want to see, though, is them starting up and then shutting down again, so I think everyone would agree we want to get the lockdown right. We want to make the decision of moving out of the lockdown at the right time so we don’t go back. So that’s what we have to factor in. I want to give New Zealanders certainty, I want to give them a plan, and I want it to be a path that stays in one direction. Media : The minor extensions of bubbles—should they include people who are over 70, or grandparents, and if they do, should those people not send their kids to school? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the over-60s or 70s group—older people—and people with pre-existing conditions is still a group we want to absolutely try and protect in this situation. It will be possible to include an older person, but in that bubble you could include arrangements that still keep that person safe. So this would be similar to a situation where a case—someone who is positive—might be living at home but still, in effect, isolating within that bubble, so maintaining strict hygiene and physical distancing. This is one, I think, where people need to really use their judgment, because we do know that that group is at risk but we also know that that is a group that is at risk from loneliness, and these are things that are very important, so we will look to people to really apply their judgment. Media : Would it be advisable, if there’s a child in that bubble, to keep them home from school? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, it would. I mean, I think anything that people can do, if they’re extending their bubble, to still minimise the risk, reduce the risk, as much as possible to those people inside their extended bubble; that’s a key principle. PM : We’ve been discussing quite a bit what happens in the future alert levels for those who have compromised immunity and those who are our older New Zealanders, because we don’t want to see a situation where over a very long period of time—at, for instance, alert level 2, potentially—that we still see those individuals isolated. Our Minister for Seniors is doing some work alongside the Ministry of Health around what the longer-term framework can look like for them, because the idea of them being that isolated for too long isn’t something any of us want to tolerate. Media : Can you give more detail on these minor extensions to bubbles? Is that only for things where it’s really quite essential—you need someone to look after your family. It’s not if you want to see your friends, or— PM : Yeah, and that’s where we’re really trying to give the principle here, is that it is ideal that you still keep your contact with a range of other people very, very limited, keeping in mind, for many people, they’re now going to be exposed to people in a workplace. Now, of course we’re going to try and maintain social distancing, but if you then are going back to your private life and extending your exposure then that causes an exponential increase to the people you’re exposed to. So that’s why we’re trying—with level 3, it’s very gradual, it’s a progressive system, and we really want to keep it as limited as possible. Keep in mind that same principle: as few people as possible, social distancing, and stay home if you can all still apply. Media : You’ve previously said that if we don’t get clusters under control, some regions may stay in lockdown while others come out of it. Eleven of the 15 new cases today are linked to clusters, so is that something still on the table? PM : Yeah, so, clusters, essentially, though, in many ways, tell us—we know what’s happening, we know where the cases are coming from, and primarily, of course, these tend to be family transmission or within bubbles. And so that tells us something, and, actually, it tells us something helpful. We now have, as Dr Bloomfield has said, four cases where we have questions. Now, on the one hand, that’s a small number; on the other, it might tell us something bigger. So that’s where we’re really delving into the detail around that. That’s over a period of time—that’s really critical to our decision-making on Monday. When it comes to regional decisions, the one thing we will factor in, though, is whether or not regional application is workable, because there are some complications with it, and that’s part of our decision, too. Media : Just staying on regions, you’ve asked people to keep it regional. Will police help monitor that? Will they be, sort of, at regional borders, for example, on State highways? PM : Yeah, and, again, this is where we are going to have to use common sense. You know, if you live in Hamilton, don’t go to Auckland, but if you live in Auckland and your work is across town, you’ll need to travel. We are relying on people not to push to the maximum of what we’re saying you can do but keep it to a minimum—the bare minimum. What we don’t want is, if we do have an outbreak, for someone to take it to another region where we’ve eliminated it. So that’s why we’re asking people to apply your common sense and the same principles we’ve applied at level 4. Media : Prime Minister, looking at another issue, Peter-Lucas, the chair of Te Whakaruruhau o Ngā Reo Irirangi Māori, the iwi radio network, was before the Parliament’s Epidemic Response Committee, and he said, “[I]t’s important that iwi radio and Māori media are given consideration if there is going to be any media recovery package or any media … support [package]”, essentially urging the Government not to leave iwi radio behind. What assurances can you give that iwi radio will not be left behind in any media support package? PM : Well, I think I’d have to say that when it comes to media, Māori media in particular—Minister Mahuta of course has been very clear, of course, that we need to make sure that we’re continuing our work to bolster the provision of journalism and the support of Māori media. Radio generally hasn’t found itself, necessarily, in some of the positions that more traditional forms of print media and television, if we’re using those old platforms, have found themselves, as radio. And so there’s a couple of different segments that we need to look at there. Yes, Māori media, but radio particularly has had different mechanisms of support. Advertising revenue and listenership has tended to hold in those sectors. That’s not to say community radio doesn’t need to continue to be supported. Media : Prime Minister, can I ask a follow on the regional questions that Maiki was asking. The West Coast is asking to be given more leniency as they have few cases and can geographically lock their region down by shutting four roads. Could you lift them out of lockdown restrictions? PM : No decisions have been made on either whether we’re moving or whether we’re moving particular regions. Media : Is it more likely that you’d move—do those kind of regional shifts between alert levels—if there are easy geographical measures that can— PM : One of the issues is that some regions may be in the same boat but may have multiple roads in, and so how do you then treat those parts of the country? And, equally, it takes one movement, as we saw, for example, with the Hereford bull conference. It started in one place and then dispersed itself through the rest of the country very, very easily. So these are all complex factors that we have to take into account. Media : Can I ask a follow on Henry’s question about older New Zealanders. Some that we’ve spoken to are very concerned about their freedoms and their ability to make choices being taken away from them long term if that kind of ruling is perpetuated. What do you say to them, and can you clarify what will likely be the position for them in the next few months? PM : Yeah, and so, while at alert levels 3 and 4, we’re saying to people with compromised immunity, or our older New Zealanders, that we still want to limit the amount of new people that are coming into contact with them. At other alert levels, we’re looking at how we can protect them when they are out and about. So we are starting to think in a different frame for those groups, but that is something we’re still working really hard on. But we are very mindful that we do not want to keep those groups in our society completely isolated. Media : Prime Minister, Winston Peters says a trans-Tasman travel bubble is currently being explored. He says it could be a serious possibility. Would you be supportive of such an arrangement at some point, and what are the current discussions with Australia? PM : Yeah, I mean, you’ve heard me talk a little bit about Singapore, for example. And, of course, we’ve discussed Australia. As I’ve said, though, I think both of us have the same goal in mind at the moment: get it under control in our own countries, and then we can talk about together what we’re able to achieve. For both of us, I anticipate the border restrictions will be present for a long time, so it becomes whether or not there’s anything we can build into those border restrictions that take into account our goals to keep COVID out for both of us. Media : Are there any discussions underway at the moment? PM : Certainly that’s started with Singapore, and we do have frequent contact with Australia, and at officials’ level I couldn’t tell you how far along those have got. But they will be a part of my ongoing agenda with PM Morrison. Media : Prime Minister, there are many parents who are going to hear that schools are open, and go, “It’s been a long four weeks, I’m going to send my kid to school.” What is your message to those ones who are just finding it tough and want to send their kid— PM: Yeah, and look, you know, it is voluntary. We are encouraging parents, though, to, if they’re able to, to keep their children home but with distance learning, and, of course, keeping in mind we’re only going up to year 10 for that voluntary restart of education. You know, but I also accept that there will be some sole parents who would’ve had an incredibly hard period of time. We will not be applying a check or a test as to the reason that a child is in school, but we are asking that if parents are able to, that they keep their kids home. Media : Dr Bloomfield, do you have any updates on the number of people who are in quarantine and how many may have tested positive? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Actually, I gave those numbers to the Prime Minister earlier on. PM : Yes, I can give you. So the number currently in quarantine is 88, and then the total combined of quarantined and in hotels is 1,189. I do recall that several of our tests from yesterday were positive tests of people who are in quarantine. Media : Dr Bloomfield, has the Health Ministry made any further decisions about whether [ Inaudible ] advice for New Zealand public to wear masks in public settings like the supermarket? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, not at this point; we continue to look at the international evidence. And this is one of the things we’re looking at. There is a number of countries around the world who are, similar to us, looking at how to ease out of a lockdown situation. So we’re constantly scanning—every day scanning—the evidence and the literature and also the media to find out what it is they’re planning to do, and that includes the place of masks, including widespread public wearing of those. Media : Dr Bloomfield, how many DHBs around the country are currently recycling PPE, and why is this occurring when you’ve said, on so many occasions, that supply is really good? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So, as far as I know, none are reusing PPE—well, none are reusing PPE; I can say that. They may be recycling it. All our hospitals have quite advanced recycling programmes because there’s a lot of recyclable products that come through the hospital process, so they may be recycling it but not reusing it. What I would say is that what has been talked about in the US—which is, of course, in a very different situation from New Zealand, with shortages of PPE, with a really significant outbreak—is not just taking it off when it’s dirty and then putting it back on; there’s a very thorough process it goes through of chemical and UV treatment to, effectively, disinfect it before it’s reused. We are not doing that in New Zealand. Media: [ Inaudibl e] in any hospital across the country? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That would certainly not be our policy. As far as I’m aware, that is not happening, yes. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you confirm the number of Air New Zealand staffers now with COVID-19? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t confirm the total number, but you might want to ask Air New Zealand that. Media : Just a couple of follow-up questions on DHBs, are DHBs eligible for the essential service leave scheme; why and why not, and just also, we have heard from a DHB employee who has been advised by her doctor to stay home—she has type 2 diabetes. The DHB has deemed her work safe and says she must come into the hospital for her shift or take personal leave. Is that appropriate? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So I can’t comment on an individual employment matter, and as I said yesterday, there are a large number of employees in the workforce, so I’ll leave that to the individual DHB to sort out with that employee. On the former, yes, it’s my understanding that health workers are eligible for the essential worker leave scheme, yes. Media : Just on schools, if we move to level 3 before 29 April, would they restart straight away, or would it be still the 29 April date? PM : My recollection is that we do have dates around the way that the reopening would apply, but I’ll leave that to the detailed release that we’ve prepared, and sitting under some of the documentation I’ve already shown you is different guidelines on transport, on education, on health, and on workplaces. What I would also add is that a huge amount of work has gone into this. We have either completed consultation with some groups or that is still under way, so it will continue to be refined. So it won’t necessarily have every single question answered, but it does a very good job of giving an overview. Media : Have you made any decisions at what point you’d let Cabinet meet in person again? PM : Yeah, so that’s alongside—some of that, for me, will be guided by the way that the House and Parliament will choose to resume or not, and so I’m waiting for some of the guidance that’s coming out of the Business Committee. But you’ll remember before we went into lockdown, we had started bringing in a practice of having a smaller number and others who were at a distance so that we could maintain social distancing. So those are the kinds of tactics I’ll deploy at different alert levels. But I am using Parliament as a bit of a guide as to how we operate. Media : Queenstown has been a sort of hot spot for a while now. What changed to lead to the opening of this, sort of, community testing centre? Dr Ashley Bloomfield :  So, yeah, happy to comment on that. So, yes, there has been quite a large number of cases in Queenstown, all associated with specific events there. And we did get some advice earlier in the week from our epidemiology subgroup of our technical advisory group. We’d specifically asked this question about were there specific geographical locations where some wider testing might be useful at this point, and they recommended Queenstown, and I’m very pleased to say that primary care were fantastic and got in there straight away—we only got the advice yesterday—and they’ve set it up and it’s going today. So it just helps us build a picture of where there is any potential community transmission there. Media : What are the other locations that were recommended to you that are being looked at? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There were three other locations. One was South Auckland, one was Waikato—but that’s quite big, so I’m just seeking more information there and I’ve asked the team to progress that, and there is another location I just can’t remember off the top of my head. What you have seen, though, of course, is with today’s lab testing numbers, there has been an increase in testing even though we know there are much lower levels of respiratory illness out in the community. And that’s showing through in our Healthline data and in the general practice data that’s collected every day of influenza-like illness. There’s been a quite big drop over the last two weeks, but their testing is ongoing. Media : Thank you. Will children be able to play on the playground when they return to school, as they do return to school? PM : So what we’re going to apply, and I know that this will be challenging, is we are going to try and keep children in the same groups each day. And so for primary school, that’s going to be a little bit easier, because, of course, they tend to, of course, have those classrooms pre-determined, and that means trying to keep them playing in similar groups as well. So it really will depend on the way that the school chooses to keep those groups apart and operate their school as to who will be able to access what equipment. Again, it will also be challenging for ECEs. What we’re hoping is that with this time to plan, they’ll be able to reach out to their parent groups, determine how many will be coming back into early childhood education, then start planning—like, for instance, if they have staggered drop-offs, and so on, because it’s actually more likely to be parents communing with one another than children that is going to be the thing we have to manage. Media : And how likely is it—for either of you to answer—how likely is it that we’ll see an increase in cases, and, perhaps, deaths, in level 3? PM : Well, the whole goal of level 3 is actually to maintain and keep improving—so to lose nothing that we’ve gained from level 4—and that’s why it’s so critical that we make the right decision at the right time. Level 3 isn’t about tolerating any increases; it’s about can we then move—have some slight lessening but actually maintain and keep the gains we’ve already had. Media : So if you saw a slight shift up, you’d be quite quick to move back into lockdown? PM : This is why we call level 3, really, the recovery room. This is where we hold, we see if we’re really well, and whether or not we can keep moving. Media : Just a question about takeaways. You’ve said drive-throughs, but will restaurants be able to open, sort of, a shopfront takeaway system? PM : Yeah, and so you will have heard my guidance there, is that contactless is key—you cannot have face-to-face interactions with customers, and so those are the principles we’re asking our retailers to apply. So, for many, that will mean that they’ll have online deliveries or that they’ll revert back to using things like umbrella deliveries like Uber, or they may have—if they’re a retailer—click and collect. But we’re asking everyone: remember, when you’re building in your innovation, you cannot have face-to-face contact with customers. The reason for that is that opens up a large scale of interactions with a large number of people across New Zealand that could lead to exponential growth in contacts, and we can’t afford that. So that’s why those rules will apply. Media : So, potentially, takeaway coffees, for instance? PM : So there are some individuals and there are some cafes who already have click and collect options—they won’t be everyone. But some have already figured out ways to create opportunities for commerce in that way. For any retailer out there, what I’d say is just remember the rule: use an app, use online, use the phone, use the car, but it cannot be face to face. Media : Can I just get clarification on the playgrounds. So that’s within schools; what about playgrounds that are in parks? PM : Yeah. We mean to keep that closed, because, of course, multiple, multiple children can access one piece of play equipment. So within schools, what we’re trying to do is keep those little bubbles limited, and, of course, we’re also putting out guidance to schools and ECEs around cleaning regimes, and, of course, they have those regimes already. When it comes to public play equipment, I personally know how hard this is—you try taking a two-year-old past some play equipment they can’t use—but we just can’t risk one piece of equipment being a vector for transmission still, at this point. OK, we’ll just take our last couple, yeah. Media : Just on moving between alert levels, have you settled on a range of triggers for those, and why not make them more public so that people have certainty? PM : Yeah, so actually we have talked—I’ve talked publicly about some of them already, but I might get Dr Bloomfield to do a supplement where I’ve perhaps left anything out. The primary factors are: are we seeing that exponential growth that tells us that you’ve lost control? Are we seeing indicators of widespread community transmission? Are we seeing, in particular regions, any of those signs as well? And then we look at all of the things that then help you maintain where you are—contact tracing and the scale of contact tracing, effectiveness of quarantine, and isolation measures. Those are all things that we factor into our decision making. Dr Bloomfield, you might also recall those ranges. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s a good summary, Prime Minister, and I think the other thing is, of course, we’ve been able to scale up our testing capacity and get more surety of supply around testing, so our ability to use testing to rapidly—as I’ve talked about—ring-fence any cases that do come up. But, really, just a comment on level 3: you’ve heard the Prime Minister talk about “we’re over the peak in level 4, but not out of the woods”. We will still be not out of the woods in level 3, and, if anything, we need to be even more vigilant, because everybody will have, potentially, more contact with others, so it’s actually a lower level in terms of the alert level but increased vigilance by everybody. Media : Does this mean that you’re not fully confident that you’ve cornered community transmission? I mean, you’ve got 4 percent of cases, slowing case numbers—why such a strict level 3? PM : Yeah, well, two things that I would say—of course, that 4 percent is over the breadth of the time that we’ve been testing, and what you’ve heard Dr Bloomfield talk about today is in the last period of time, in our last cycle of transmission, before we consider what we do next, we’ve got a small handful now of cases that we’re really delving into to see what it’s telling us, so that’s an important distinction to make. Level 3 continues to be really cautious, because the last thing you want to do is move out of level 4 and lose everything. And so that’s why level 3’s designed in that way, but it’s not designed to be a place we want to spend a long time. The last thing I’ll say, just on the judgment call around movement out of lockdown, in the last couple of weeks I’ve spoken to the likes of the Prime Minister of Denmark, who you’ll see has recently started moving out of their lockdown—progressively—and I’ve also spoken to the Prime Minister of Singapore. And what we’ve discussed is the criteria we use. There is no template for the world. There is no set of guidelines that every leader is using—we are all grappling with the same thing. So I’m confident that what we’re doing is applying a rigorous analysis to make our decision. But what we’re also doing is applying analysis for our strategy in New Zealand, which is unique to us. Yeah, we’ll just take the last two. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can I just quickly ask about flu vaccines. There is a practice in Dunedin who would like an apology. They said the Ministry has been over-promising, because they have run out of vaccines, they don’t know when they’re going to get them, they’re getting abuse from people, hundreds of people waiting. What is your response to that? PM : Their region has vaccine; I checked about four days ago. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There’s a lot of vaccine in the system. Two things I would say is: I would love to know the practice and we will absolutely respond to the issue there. We had a shipment that was due to go across to the South Island over the weekend. The ferry was cancelled that it was on, so it’s a few days late. But there’s even more vaccine going down to the South Island, and there are still hundreds of thousands of doses out there in the system that can be delivered. I’m very happy to follow up that specific example. PM : And when we do that, we’ll give you the numbers as well for the DHB, because it was last Tuesday, I believe, that I checked, and there were still at that time—although they were distributed across different pharmacies and different GPs at that time. And so that has been one of the challenges. Media : I guess the question is, there’s people who are really angry and taking it out on these centres who don’t have a vaccine— PM : Which is not OK. Media : —so what is your message? PM : Which is not OK. You know, and I say the same thing: don’t take out frustration on front-line health workers, but, equally, we need to help support those front-line health workers by getting them the vaccine that’s available. Media : Has an index case been identified for the Rosewood rest home? Do you know who brought it in and where they got it from? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It’s not 100 percent clear. And so this is the case in some instances, where we are not able to definitely confirm who the index case is. What is most important there, of course, is that we are making sure we’re preventing any further spread and that we’ve identified any potential close contacts both inside the facility and outside the facility. But we still—and I’ve talked with the DHB twice about this; it’s still not 100 percent certain where the index case is. PM : That’s often—I mean, just from my layperson, having looked at a few clusters and cluster maps, in some cases that’s where you have more than one person who has it, as opposed to not knowing at all where it came from. Media : Is the Invercargill case linked to the Bluff wedding? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It is, yes, linked to the Bluff wedding, yes. Not directly, but indirectly, yes. Media : Prime Minister, just on repatriation flights, for a colleague, they’ve been having reports that people simply are worried that they can’t afford the repatriation flights at such a high cost. Can you just outline why they are so high at the moment compared to the likes of the Wuhan repatriation flight? PM : What I can say is that they go no way near covering the cost of bringing New Zealanders home. I’ve been going over some of the costs of that. We are substantially subsidising bringing those Kiwis home. And what MFAT have tried to do is create a framework that’s broadly in line with some of the commercial rates you would pay to come home on a commercial flight if it were available. So they have tried to be fair. It’s based on the number of hours that you’re on a flight, and there’s different levels then based on how long-haul the flight, versus short-haul, is. I do acknowledge, though, that we are asking for a payment, and that’s because the expectation is if you’re overseas, you would have to get home somehow; it just so happens you’ll be doing it via a flight that New Zealanders are supporting substantially. OK, thank you, everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Kia ora koutou katoa, everyone. Welcome to today’s update. We’ll start with our usual update from Dr Bloomfield, after which I’ll share some of the additional work that has been done on alert levels over the past few weeks. I will forewarn you, my section will be a little bit longer than usual, but I’m sure you’ll all appreciate why. First of all, Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. So, today, New Zealand’s total number of COVID-19 cases has increased by 15—this comprises six new confirmed cases and nine new probable cases. There are no further deaths to report today. There are now 770 reported cases of COVID-19 who have recovered from their infection, an increase of 42 on yesterday, and the new combined total of confirmed and probable cases is 1,401. Today, there are 12 people in hospital, and three of these people are in ICU: Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. Two of those people are in a critical condition. As of today, just 4 percent of cases are now classified as under investigation. And I’ve been saying for the last few days that the cases we’re particularly interested in are the ones that have happened, really, since lockdown, and to be able to be very certain about the origin of the infection in those cases. So, as of yesterday, we had 23 cases since 24 March that were still categorised as being under investigation. This morning, my team has worked hard with the public health units to find out more about those cases. We’ve been able to confirm now that five of those cases are due to overseas exposure and 13 are contacts of confirmed cases, including someone who may be part of a known cluster or linked to someone who has travelled from overseas. Four of the cases have now been classed as community acquired, and just one case is still under investigation—and that is actually a case from yesterday. So this is a very important part of the information we need now to be able to inform a decision around whether we are in a position to step down from alert level 4, and it’s very good that we are now doing this very detailed analysis on every new case. And I will, later today, have more information on the cases that we are reporting today—those additional cases today, 15 cases. Yesterday in the labs, they processed 3,661 tests—that’s another big jump up—and there’s a lot of testing now happening around the country. So the total tests undertaken to date is 70,160. There’s also some specific targeted sentinel testing going on, and this morning in Queenstown at a supermarket, 300 people are being swabbed from the community to inform our understanding and build the picture of whether there is any community transmission happening in Queenstown; it was one the areas of concern. And we are also looking actively at two or three other places around the country where this will happen. The testing numbers also include two new laboratories that have come online, including the Medlab Central in Palmerston North and the Nelson-Marlborough laboratory. Today, there are still 16 significant clusters—no change from yesterday—and 11 of the new cases are connected to those clusters. Finally, just an update on the death that I spoke about yesterday in Invercargill: a post-mortem process is now underway, and when I have the findings of that, I will provide further information. Thank you, PM. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Three and a half weeks ago, New Zealand was in a unique position. Unlike other countries, we had enough lead-in before COVID-19 reached our shores. That meant we could make a choice: we could allow a wave of devastation to hit us, like it has in other countries, or we could take decisive, pre-emptive action by going hard and early into lockdown to stop the spread of the disease in its tracks. We chose action, and the indications at this stage are promising. We will never know what would’ve happened if we’d taken the first path, but the projections were for thousands of deaths if the virus got away on us, many more sick and in hospital, and the country and our economy grinding to a halt regardless. We should not confuse the success of our actions with overreaction, and there is plenty of proof around the world of the devastating result of responding too late. New Zealanders’ collective actions and unity at level 4 has put us in the rare position where we can make choices about our next steps—because our fight hasn’t just been against health impacts; it’s been about stopping COVID from taking people’s livelihoods, too. Our best economic strategy is still to win the fight against the virus—eliminate it—and that means we get out of prolonged restrictions on the way we live our lives sooner, and move business into recovery sooner. Overall, we have made a good start, but we need to keep going, and that means we need to start preparing for what could come next. Today, as promised, I will share more information about what life will look like at different COVID-19 alert levels. While I’ll focus mainly on level 3, as that’s the next step we will move to in time, information is also being made available today on levels 2 and level 1. The first thing I want to really emphasise—and I cannot emphasise this enough—what I’m talking about today in no way foreshadows the decision that we’ll be taking on Monday regarding the current lockdown. Today is instead about giving time for business, and, in fact, everyone, to think about what the different alert levels will mean for them, so when it comes time to move, we will be ready to move. Secondly, we will step down to level 3 in a way that is consistent with our goal to eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. The last thing we want to do when moving levels is give away the gains that we have won in lockdown, so that means that we will be considering seriously all of the data and information that we present daily to you as a Cabinet when we come to make that decision. But let me start, then, with the principles of alert level 3. As the alert level system makes clear, and you’ll remember the table we used when we first announced that, different levels allow different amounts of contact with one another, depending on how bad the spread of COVID-19 is. At alert level 4, the aim is to eliminate contact with each other, and that is what a full lockdown achieves. At level 3—restrict—there is still a high risk the virus can get out of control and bounce back, as we’ve seen in countries overseas, so the goal remains to restrict contact with one another as much as possible. That is why I recently described level 3 as the waiting room, or something like a recovery room. We have to wait and see if what we have done has worked. After a while, if we don’t show further signs of illness, we can go back to a life that is a bit more normal, which is what alert level 2 really starts to feel like. If we deteriorate, then it’s back to lockdown, at level 4. And just like when you’re recovering from an illness, you still primarily stay home, and that’s the same message at level 3: stay home; save lives. It remains the most effective way to break the chain of transmission. There are some key differences, though, based on assessments of public health risk and evidence from overseas, aimed to help people and business to move forward while we are still in the recovery room. Firstly, keep your bubble. The more we can limit the new people everyone is exposed to, the better. But at level 3, you can expand your bubble a small amount. If you have a caregiver that you need in your life, children who might be in a shared care arrangement, a de facto partner who is caring for others, or you’re a single person who wants the company of a sibling, for example, you can extend your bubble. Keep it exclusive, though; keep it small. Secondly, the principle for businesses and workplaces at level 3 moves from essential operations only to safe operations only. We still want to reduce contact with one another, so you must work from home if you can. If you cannot, because you work in an area like forestry or construction, you can return to your place of work if you apply the health and safety expectations we have established for COVID-19—in the same way that businesses currently operating have. That includes things like social distancing and good hygiene practices. The same applies for those who work in people’s homes, like furniture removal, electricians, or plumbers—you can return to work, but keep your distance from your customers. There are, however, some businesses that cannot open in their usual way because it involves far too much contact on too large a scale with members of the public. Public-facing bars, restaurants, and cafes remain closed, and so do malls and retail stores. But, unlike level 4, food delivery, drive-through, online shopping, or options like click and collect shopping can begin. The key principle here is simple: you cannot engage in face-to-face transactions, so use your phone, use your computer, use your car, or use an app. There is a high level of responsibility that comes with reopening many businesses in this way, and it isn’t without risk. We’ve consulted with major sectors like hospitality and retail on these changes, and we are working with other sectors on industry-specific guidelines to minimise risk, but at level 3 we cautiously start opening up our economy, albeit with significant mitigations. I know there’ll be a number of questions around other businesses that you’ll have. I can assure you that in the more detailed guidance that is available, some of those questions will certainly be answered. Thirdly, at level 3 there will be a partial reopening of education. Early childhood centres and schools will be available, up to and including year 10 only, but attendance is purely voluntary. Our intention here is to create a place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, but to do so safely. Children will be kept in their own school bubbles: small groups to try and limit their exposure to too many other children each day. For children who are able to, we still encourage them to remain home and be part of distance learning. Tertiary education will mostly be through distance learning, but with the exception of on-campus research that can’t be done off campus, such as lab work and practical, hands-on learning such as trade courses, where the learning can happen in small groups with appropriate physical distancing. Courses where close contact is unavoidable will remain online only. Travel restrictions remain. Previously, we have talked about keeping it local. At level 3, we will ask that you keep it regional. The principle here is that we know at level 3 more people will travel to work or to take children to school. We don’t, however, want to take potential COVID cases into other parts of the country, so restricting movement to only what is necessary is still the goal here. When it comes to recreation, the principles also remain simple: keep it alone or in your bubble, keep it low risk, and also keep it non-motorised. That means we are still excluding things like boating and jet skis. That’s simply because we know from the statistics these are still prone to accidents or breakdowns that can lead you to have contact with others. But there are other activities which you can undertake by yourself or within your bubble that we will be permitting: you can swim, you can surf, you can fish from the shore. However, I do want to add a word of caution here. Now is not the time to take up a new activity that you have never done before—it is too risky. The whole point at this level is to continue to really reduce down, as I’ve said before, your contact with others. If there is any sign of congregation, we will not hesitate to review these changes. So please, do not rush to places where others may congregate as well and treat it as a reunion with your long-lost swimming buddies. At level 3, the principle of reducing contacts remains. So that means tough calls still on life events. Funerals will be able to go ahead, but they will not be able to have any more than 10 people—that includes for tangi as well. For weddings, the same number applies, but they can only be services; no meals, food, or receptions can take place. We’re simply suggesting here that for those who wish to take part in a legal ceremony, they are able to. Sadly, level 3 is about reducing risks, and as you will have seen from some of our devastating clusters, life events means a major risk and only require one person to be carrying the illness to spread it to dozens of others. Finally, you’ll see from the description of level 3 there are more opportunities for you to come into contact with people outside your bubble. As a general rule of thumb, the goal of keeping two metres away from each other still applies. That’s the gold standard. And for anyone who’s ever wondered why, that’s the distance you need from someone who may potentially be symptomatic if you are to remain away any potentially dangerous things like sneezes, droplets, coughs, and so on. However, in some places, that will be more difficult. If you are in a workplace or an education facility, for instance—places, however, where we will be able to contact trace the people around you. Then, in these circumstances, one metre can apply. That’s in keeping with the World Health Organization’s recommendations of distance for someone who does not have symptoms. So, again, if it’s people you know and that we can find if we need to, then one metre is a rule that we can apply in those circumstances. Fundamentally, though, the more distance the better, particularly when it comes to strangers. In fact, now more than ever, as you come into contact with more people, we must keep our distance, wash our hands, keep yourself and your bubble safe, continue to act like you have COVID, and, I would add, to act like those around you and near you may have it too. Keep a note of where you have been, when you have been there, and who with. It will help if we ever find ourselves contacting you because of a potential COVID case. Small changes like this will make the world of difference. There is extra risk and a high level of trust and responsibility that comes at level 3, if and when we move to it. The success of our lockdown and the majority of people showing that they can follow the rules gives me confidence that the same level of discipline to keeping to the rules at level 3 continues to apply, if not more. There’ll no doubt be additional questions beyond the broad overview I’ve given today, and as I’ve said, details are available at the COVID website and include much more of a description around some of what I’ve talked about. It does not mean we’ll necessarily be able to provide every answer to every single scenario. We have given ourselves time, though, so if you’re a business, in particular, and you need a question answered, please do reach out to MBIE for further information. All workplaces, though, should begin to work on a plan for how they are managing risks and protecting workers and customers under COVID alert level 3, and these need to be made available at a worksite so staff can see what steps you as an employer are taking. We’ll also be providing support for businesses to do this through a self-accreditation scheme of sorts, available online, and I’ll say more about that next week. Ultimately, level 3 is a progression. It’s not a rush to normality. Many things will feel the same as they do now. It is not until level 2 that there is significantly lower risk to public health and where there can be a significant loosening of controls on people’s movement and your ability to socialise with one another. But there is a reason for that. We want to get to that place sooner, and when we get there, we want to stay there. In fact, Treasury modelling tells us that we are better off in the longer term to stay in levels 4 and 3 a bit longer now and defeat the virus rather than moving too quickly and having to move backwards and forwards between the levels or stay in them longer overall. We have the opportunity to do something no other country has achieved—elimination of the virus—but it will continue to need a team of five million behind it. Under lockdown, we’ve shown our ability to put in place a virtual wall that is breaking the chain of transmission. Our new line of defence when we reach level 3 is common sense, following the rules, and trusting one another, and I believe we can do that. We’re now happy to take your questions. Media : Prime Minister, if we do move to level 3, under what circumstances would you move us back into lockdown, and how quickly could you do that? PM : Again, we won’t take that decision lightly, and I do want to, for those who’ve joined midway through the broadcast, just again remind that I’m setting out the broad parameters for level 3; I’m not announcing here today that we’re moving to it. When we make that decision, though, we want to do it with enough confidence that we won’t be moving back in the short term or the near term into lockdown, because we do want consistency. We want a progression down, not a progression back. Media : You’ve talked about Treasury modelling and the need to stay in level 3 and 4 for longer because that prevents us needing to go backwards and forwards but, realistically, how soon do you think we could move into that more normal level 2 stage? PM : My hope is that if we get level 4 right, we then progress down through level 3 and we continue to see success. Of course, we would hope to do that in shorter periods of time. I think, actually, our bar, really, though, is what we see overseas. Some countries are in lockdown for up to two months. Our goal is not to have heavy level of restrictions on our movements for long periods of time. That’s because we will have got the health answer right, and that, in turn, supports business and our economy. Media : On the schools, why have you decided to make it a voluntary thing rather than just allowing kids of essential workers to go? PM : Essentially, essential work, though, is now joined by a group of other workers, so there will be a wider range of individuals returning to the workforce—essentially, those who cannot work from home. So we do need to make sure that there’s provision available for their children to be cared for while they’re learning. It is voluntary, though. We do still encourage children, if they can, to be at home, but we will not be applying a test to every individual child as to why they’re being brought to school, and so that choice there remains. But with a smaller number of children in our schools, which we do anticipate and which is what has happened overseas, that allows us to keep our young people in groups, and that’s also in part because we won’t have our full high school cohort back. We’ve brought back those who legally do need to be supervised, but they won’t be, for instance, moving around a large number of other students. That helps us if we ever do need to undertake contact tracing. Media : What was the rationale behind only allowing children up to year 10? PM : The reason for allowing up to and including year 10 is because that covers children up to the age of 14, who, of course, by law do need to be supervised by adults and cannot be left home alone. So that means parents who do need to return to their workplace, who cannot work from home or have no other caregiving options, will have the opportunity to have their child go back into school, but we expect smaller numbers, which will enable us to keep those children in smaller groups rather than moving around large numbers of other children. So, essentially, they’ll have a school bubble, and that helps us with the tracking of any potential cases. We’re very aware, though, that parents will have concerns about their children re-entering education, so we’re doing that in a managed way, in a way where we can manage their safety and the safety of our teachers. Media : Prime Minister, how confident are you that these alert level 3 measures could be policed once it gets to that point? PM : It is fair to say that lockdown is a much easier thing to enforce—it’s much more black and white. It means that, basically, there’s very few reasons why anyone is leaving their home, and you, essentially, can make a judgment over whether or not that is the reason people are out and about. At alert level 3, we will have more people transporting children to school, travelling to work themselves, and so it does require a lot more responsibility on the part of every New Zealander. But I believe that, as a team of 5 million looking after each other, that we will follow through on that, that we will want to make sure that we’re successful, and so I have confidence in New Zealanders. Media : Once we get to that point, how long do you anticipate we could stay in level 3? PM : Well, we will give an indication of that at the time that we make decisions, and I want to do that in order to really give people a sense—to give them an expectation. But you will have seen what we’ve tended to use are the cycles of transmission, so one cycle is two weeks, two cycles is a month, and so we’ll tend to look in blocks that are around cycles of transmission, because there’s an evidence base behind why we do that, and it can tell us how we’re doing as a nation. Media : How will businesses know whether they’re able to trade? Do they have to apply and prove anything, or do they just trade and hope they’re doing it right? PM : So as you will have heard me say, we’re moving from just essential services now to those who can operate safely, so we expect—just as we have for those who are already operating—that businesses will put in place hygiene, cleaning regimes, and social distancing within their workplaces. We’ll be putting in place some support through MBIE— and I’ll say more on that next week—to help people self-accredit and to be able to formulate a worksite plan that they will have to make available at their worksite for employees and customers. We have had, to date, MBIE undertaking an audit regime of sorts. We will have a larger scale of businesses going back, so it won’t be possible to do that with everyone who’s returning. That’s why we’ll be using that accreditation regime. Media : Will Parliament operate under level 3? PM : Business Committee will be meeting tomorrow, I believe it is, to discuss some of the expectations for Parliament under the different alert levels. So that’s an area where I’ve always been keen to let the Business Committee, a cross-section of MPs and parties, to make those decisions, under the leadership of the Speaker. So we’ll incorporate that into the levels once that work’s done. Media : In terms of wider health services, such as physios, dentists, companies like that, what level would they be able to reopen for non-emergency work? PM : Yeah, so some of the health framework—that’s one area where we’re continuing to do a bit more detailed work. I expect that will be released in the next 48 hours, but that’s one area—because the individual DHBs, as well as some of the services you’ve mentioned, are needing to determine the way they treat electives and so on at the different alert levels. We want consistency, so Health will be releasing that within, I’d say, the next 48 hours. Anything you want to add on that, Dr Bloomfield? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just a quick comment, Prime Minister. So, yes, the principle in the hospitals will be to do as much care as possible while keeping people safe—both staff and any patients accessing services. In terms of the community, similar to now, primary care will continue to be open, using virtual consultations as much as possible, but also dental and allied health, which is the physio example you’ve used, will be permitted to do so. But, again, the key public health principles of alert level 3 are very clear: first of all, to reduce the likelihood someone gets infected, and, secondly, if someone does get infected, reduce the number of people to whom they’re exposed so that it’s much easier, then, to contact trace and ring-fence any infections. PM : Dental, of course, have PPE provisions in place that, of course, add that extra layer of protection, as well. Media : How many extra businesses did MBIE say would likely go back to work? PM : Running from my recollection here, which was, I believe, of individuals rather than businesses—there’s been assumptions made around roughly half a million New Zealanders, potentially, being out in essential work services and so on. My recollection is that that roughly doubles at alert level 3. As you can imagine, it’s quite hard to predict, or quite hard to make an estimate, and that’s more about employees rather than businesses. Media : You specifically said about forestry and retail and hospitality—what about the likes of construction, the manufacturing workforce? PM : Yes, yes. So all of that comes back into play. We do have expectations, though, around them implementing the same expectations we have around those existing services that are already operating. There is already food production going on, and so there will be things that MPI and MBIE have learnt from those processes that they’ll now be applying and sharing with others who’ll be returning to manufacturing. Media : How much is getting those businesses back up and running going to factor into whether we come out of alert level 4? PM : I think the last thing that those businesses want to see, though, is them starting up and then shutting down again, so I think everyone would agree we want to get the lockdown right. We want to make the decision of moving out of the lockdown at the right time so we don’t go back. So that’s what we have to factor in. I want to give New Zealanders certainty, I want to give them a plan, and I want it to be a path that stays in one direction. Media : The minor extensions of bubbles—should they include people who are over 70, or grandparents, and if they do, should those people not send their kids to school? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the over-60s or 70s group—older people—and people with pre-existing conditions is still a group we want to absolutely try and protect in this situation. It will be possible to include an older person, but in that bubble you could include arrangements that still keep that person safe. So this would be similar to a situation where a case—someone who is positive—might be living at home but still, in effect, isolating within that bubble, so maintaining strict hygiene and physical distancing. This is one, I think, where people need to really use their judgment, because we do know that that group is at risk but we also know that that is a group that is at risk from loneliness, and these are things that are very important, so we will look to people to really apply their judgment. Media : Would it be advisable, if there’s a child in that bubble, to keep them home from school? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, it would. I mean, I think anything that people can do, if they’re extending their bubble, to still minimise the risk, reduce the risk, as much as possible to those people inside their extended bubble; that’s a key principle. PM : We’ve been discussing quite a bit what happens in the future alert levels for those who have compromised immunity and those who are our older New Zealanders, because we don’t want to see a situation where over a very long period of time—at, for instance, alert level 2, potentially—that we still see those individuals isolated. Our Minister for Seniors is doing some work alongside the Ministry of Health around what the longer-term framework can look like for them, because the idea of them being that isolated for too long isn’t something any of us want to tolerate. Media : Can you give more detail on these minor extensions to bubbles? Is that only for things where it’s really quite essential—you need someone to look after your family. It’s not if you want to see your friends, or— PM : Yeah, and that’s where we’re really trying to give the principle here, is that it is ideal that you still keep your contact with a range of other people very, very limited, keeping in mind, for many people, they’re now going to be exposed to people in a workplace. Now, of course we’re going to try and maintain social distancing, but if you then are going back to your private life and extending your exposure then that causes an exponential increase to the people you’re exposed to. So that’s why we’re trying—with level 3, it’s very gradual, it’s a progressive system, and we really want to keep it as limited as possible. Keep in mind that same principle: as few people as possible, social distancing, and stay home if you can all still apply. Media : You’ve previously said that if we don’t get clusters under control, some regions may stay in lockdown while others come out of it. Eleven of the 15 new cases today are linked to clusters, so is that something still on the table? PM : Yeah, so, clusters, essentially, though, in many ways, tell us—we know what’s happening, we know where the cases are coming from, and primarily, of course, these tend to be family transmission or within bubbles. And so that tells us something, and, actually, it tells us something helpful. We now have, as Dr Bloomfield has said, four cases where we have questions. Now, on the one hand, that’s a small number; on the other, it might tell us something bigger. So that’s where we’re really delving into the detail around that. That’s over a period of time—that’s really critical to our decision-making on Monday. When it comes to regional decisions, the one thing we will factor in, though, is whether or not regional application is workable, because there are some complications with it, and that’s part of our decision, too. Media : Just staying on regions, you’ve asked people to keep it regional. Will police help monitor that? Will they be, sort of, at regional borders, for example, on State highways? PM : Yeah, and, again, this is where we are going to have to use common sense. You know, if you live in Hamilton, don’t go to Auckland, but if you live in Auckland and your work is across town, you’ll need to travel. We are relying on people not to push to the maximum of what we’re saying you can do but keep it to a minimum—the bare minimum. What we don’t want is, if we do have an outbreak, for someone to take it to another region where we’ve eliminated it. So that’s why we’re asking people to apply your common sense and the same principles we’ve applied at level 4. Media : Prime Minister, looking at another issue, Peter-Lucas, the chair of Te Whakaruruhau o Ngā Reo Irirangi Māori, the iwi radio network, was before the Parliament’s Epidemic Response Committee, and he said, “[I]t’s important that iwi radio and Māori media are given consideration if there is going to be any media recovery package or any media … support [package]”, essentially urging the Government not to leave iwi radio behind. What assurances can you give that iwi radio will not be left behind in any media support package? PM : Well, I think I’d have to say that when it comes to media, Māori media in particular—Minister Mahuta of course has been very clear, of course, that we need to make sure that we’re continuing our work to bolster the provision of journalism and the support of Māori media. Radio generally hasn’t found itself, necessarily, in some of the positions that more traditional forms of print media and television, if we’re using those old platforms, have found themselves, as radio. And so there’s a couple of different segments that we need to look at there. Yes, Māori media, but radio particularly has had different mechanisms of support. Advertising revenue and listenership has tended to hold in those sectors. That’s not to say community radio doesn’t need to continue to be supported. Media : Prime Minister, can I ask a follow on the regional questions that Maiki was asking. The West Coast is asking to be given more leniency as they have few cases and can geographically lock their region down by shutting four roads. Could you lift them out of lockdown restrictions? PM : No decisions have been made on either whether we’re moving or whether we’re moving particular regions. Media : Is it more likely that you’d move—do those kind of regional shifts between alert levels—if there are easy geographical measures that can— PM : One of the issues is that some regions may be in the same boat but may have multiple roads in, and so how do you then treat those parts of the country? And, equally, it takes one movement, as we saw, for example, with the Hereford bull conference. It started in one place and then dispersed itself through the rest of the country very, very easily. So these are all complex factors that we have to take into account. Media : Can I ask a follow on Henry’s question about older New Zealanders. Some that we’ve spoken to are very concerned about their freedoms and their ability to make choices being taken away from them long term if that kind of ruling is perpetuated. What do you say to them, and can you clarify what will likely be the position for them in the next few months? PM : Yeah, and so, while at alert levels 3 and 4, we’re saying to people with compromised immunity, or our older New Zealanders, that we still want to limit the amount of new people that are coming into contact with them. At other alert levels, we’re looking at how we can protect them when they are out and about. So we are starting to think in a different frame for those groups, but that is something we’re still working really hard on. But we are very mindful that we do not want to keep those groups in our society completely isolated. Media : Prime Minister, Winston Peters says a trans-Tasman travel bubble is currently being explored. He says it could be a serious possibility. Would you be supportive of such an arrangement at some point, and what are the current discussions with Australia? PM : Yeah, I mean, you’ve heard me talk a little bit about Singapore, for example. And, of course, we’ve discussed Australia. As I’ve said, though, I think both of us have the same goal in mind at the moment: get it under control in our own countries, and then we can talk about together what we’re able to achieve. For both of us, I anticipate the border restrictions will be present for a long time, so it becomes whether or not there’s anything we can build into those border restrictions that take into account our goals to keep COVID out for both of us. Media : Are there any discussions underway at the moment? PM : Certainly that’s started with Singapore, and we do have frequent contact with Australia, and at officials’ level I couldn’t tell you how far along those have got. But they will be a part of my ongoing agenda with PM Morrison. Media : Prime Minister, there are many parents who are going to hear that schools are open, and go, “It’s been a long four weeks, I’m going to send my kid to school.” What is your message to those ones who are just finding it tough and want to send their kid— PM: Yeah, and look, you know, it is voluntary. We are encouraging parents, though, to, if they’re able to, to keep their children home but with distance learning, and, of course, keeping in mind we’re only going up to year 10 for that voluntary restart of education. You know, but I also accept that there will be some sole parents who would’ve had an incredibly hard period of time. We will not be applying a check or a test as to the reason that a child is in school, but we are asking that if parents are able to, that they keep their kids home. Media : Dr Bloomfield, do you have any updates on the number of people who are in quarantine and how many may have tested positive? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Actually, I gave those numbers to the Prime Minister earlier on. PM : Yes, I can give you. So the number currently in quarantine is 88, and then the total combined of quarantined and in hotels is 1,189. I do recall that several of our tests from yesterday were positive tests of people who are in quarantine. Media : Dr Bloomfield, has the Health Ministry made any further decisions about whether [ Inaudible ] advice for New Zealand public to wear masks in public settings like the supermarket? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, not at this point; we continue to look at the international evidence. And this is one of the things we’re looking at. There is a number of countries around the world who are, similar to us, looking at how to ease out of a lockdown situation. So we’re constantly scanning—every day scanning—the evidence and the literature and also the media to find out what it is they’re planning to do, and that includes the place of masks, including widespread public wearing of those. Media : Dr Bloomfield, how many DHBs around the country are currently recycling PPE, and why is this occurring when you’ve said, on so many occasions, that supply is really good? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So, as far as I know, none are reusing PPE—well, none are reusing PPE; I can say that. They may be recycling it. All our hospitals have quite advanced recycling programmes because there’s a lot of recyclable products that come through the hospital process, so they may be recycling it but not reusing it. What I would say is that what has been talked about in the US—which is, of course, in a very different situation from New Zealand, with shortages of PPE, with a really significant outbreak—is not just taking it off when it’s dirty and then putting it back on; there’s a very thorough process it goes through of chemical and UV treatment to, effectively, disinfect it before it’s reused. We are not doing that in New Zealand. Media: [ Inaudibl e] in any hospital across the country? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That would certainly not be our policy. As far as I’m aware, that is not happening, yes. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you confirm the number of Air New Zealand staffers now with COVID-19? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t confirm the total number, but you might want to ask Air New Zealand that. Media : Just a couple of follow-up questions on DHBs, are DHBs eligible for the essential service leave scheme; why and why not, and just also, we have heard from a DHB employee who has been advised by her doctor to stay home—she has type 2 diabetes. The DHB has deemed her work safe and says she must come into the hospital for her shift or take personal leave. Is that appropriate? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So I can’t comment on an individual employment matter, and as I said yesterday, there are a large number of employees in the workforce, so I’ll leave that to the individual DHB to sort out with that employee. On the former, yes, it’s my understanding that health workers are eligible for the essential worker leave scheme, yes. Media : Just on schools, if we move to level 3 before 29 April, would they restart straight away, or would it be still the 29 April date? PM : My recollection is that we do have dates around the way that the reopening would apply, but I’ll leave that to the detailed release that we’ve prepared, and sitting under some of the documentation I’ve already shown you is different guidelines on transport, on education, on health, and on workplaces. What I would also add is that a huge amount of work has gone into this. We have either completed consultation with some groups or that is still under way, so it will continue to be refined. So it won’t necessarily have every single question answered, but it does a very good job of giving an overview. Media : Have you made any decisions at what point you’d let Cabinet meet in person again? PM : Yeah, so that’s alongside—some of that, for me, will be guided by the way that the House and Parliament will choose to resume or not, and so I’m waiting for some of the guidance that’s coming out of the Business Committee. But you’ll remember before we went into lockdown, we had started bringing in a practice of having a smaller number and others who were at a distance so that we could maintain social distancing. So those are the kinds of tactics I’ll deploy at different alert levels. But I am using Parliament as a bit of a guide as to how we operate. Media : Queenstown has been a sort of hot spot for a while now. What changed to lead to the opening of this, sort of, community testing centre? Dr Ashley Bloomfield :  So, yeah, happy to comment on that. So, yes, there has been quite a large number of cases in Queenstown, all associated with specific events there. And we did get some advice earlier in the week from our epidemiology subgroup of our technical advisory group. We’d specifically asked this question about were there specific geographical locations where some wider testing might be useful at this point, and they recommended Queenstown, and I’m very pleased to say that primary care were fantastic and got in there straight away—we only got the advice yesterday—and they’ve set it up and it’s going today. So it just helps us build a picture of where there is any potential community transmission there. Media : What are the other locations that were recommended to you that are being looked at? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There were three other locations. One was South Auckland, one was Waikato—but that’s quite big, so I’m just seeking more information there and I’ve asked the team to progress that, and there is another location I just can’t remember off the top of my head. What you have seen, though, of course, is with today’s lab testing numbers, there has been an increase in testing even though we know there are much lower levels of respiratory illness out in the community. And that’s showing through in our Healthline data and in the general practice data that’s collected every day of influenza-like illness. There’s been a quite big drop over the last two weeks, but their testing is ongoing. Media : Thank you. Will children be able to play on the playground when they return to school, as they do return to school? PM : So what we’re going to apply, and I know that this will be challenging, is we are going to try and keep children in the same groups each day. And so for primary school, that’s going to be a little bit easier, because, of course, they tend to, of course, have those classrooms pre-determined, and that means trying to keep them playing in similar groups as well. So it really will depend on the way that the school chooses to keep those groups apart and operate their school as to who will be able to access what equipment. Again, it will also be challenging for ECEs. What we’re hoping is that with this time to plan, they’ll be able to reach out to their parent groups, determine how many will be coming back into early childhood education, then start planning—like, for instance, if they have staggered drop-offs, and so on, because it’s actually more likely to be parents communing with one another than children that is going to be the thing we have to manage. Media : And how likely is it—for either of you to answer—how likely is it that we’ll see an increase in cases, and, perhaps, deaths, in level 3? PM : Well, the whole goal of level 3 is actually to maintain and keep improving—so to lose nothing that we’ve gained from level 4—and that’s why it’s so critical that we make the right decision at the right time. Level 3 isn’t about tolerating any increases; it’s about can we then move—have some slight lessening but actually maintain and keep the gains we’ve already had. Media : So if you saw a slight shift up, you’d be quite quick to move back into lockdown? PM : This is why we call level 3, really, the recovery room. This is where we hold, we see if we’re really well, and whether or not we can keep moving. Media : Just a question about takeaways. You’ve said drive-throughs, but will restaurants be able to open, sort of, a shopfront takeaway system? PM : Yeah, and so you will have heard my guidance there, is that contactless is key—you cannot have face-to-face interactions with customers, and so those are the principles we’re asking our retailers to apply. So, for many, that will mean that they’ll have online deliveries or that they’ll revert back to using things like umbrella deliveries like Uber, or they may have—if they’re a retailer—click and collect. But we’re asking everyone: remember, when you’re building in your innovation, you cannot have face-to-face contact with customers. The reason for that is that opens up a large scale of interactions with a large number of people across New Zealand that could lead to exponential growth in contacts, and we can’t afford that. So that’s why those rules will apply. Media : So, potentially, takeaway coffees, for instance? PM : So there are some individuals and there are some cafes who already have click and collect options—they won’t be everyone. But some have already figured out ways to create opportunities for commerce in that way. For any retailer out there, what I’d say is just remember the rule: use an app, use online, use the phone, use the car, but it cannot be face to face. Media : Can I just get clarification on the playgrounds. So that’s within schools; what about playgrounds that are in parks? PM : Yeah. We mean to keep that closed, because, of course, multiple, multiple children can access one piece of play equipment. So within schools, what we’re trying to do is keep those little bubbles limited, and, of course, we’re also putting out guidance to schools and ECEs around cleaning regimes, and, of course, they have those regimes already. When it comes to public play equipment, I personally know how hard this is—you try taking a two-year-old past some play equipment they can’t use—but we just can’t risk one piece of equipment being a vector for transmission still, at this point. OK, we’ll just take our last couple, yeah. Media : Just on moving between alert levels, have you settled on a range of triggers for those, and why not make them more public so that people have certainty? PM : Yeah, so actually we have talked—I’ve talked publicly about some of them already, but I might get Dr Bloomfield to do a supplement where I’ve perhaps left anything out. The primary factors are: are we seeing that exponential growth that tells us that you’ve lost control? Are we seeing indicators of widespread community transmission? Are we seeing, in particular regions, any of those signs as well? And then we look at all of the things that then help you maintain where you are—contact tracing and the scale of contact tracing, effectiveness of quarantine, and isolation measures. Those are all things that we factor into our decision making. Dr Bloomfield, you might also recall those ranges. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s a good summary, Prime Minister, and I think the other thing is, of course, we’ve been able to scale up our testing capacity and get more surety of supply around testing, so our ability to use testing to rapidly—as I’ve talked about—ring-fence any cases that do come up. But, really, just a comment on level 3: you’ve heard the Prime Minister talk about “we’re over the peak in level 4, but not out of the woods”. We will still be not out of the woods in level 3, and, if anything, we need to be even more vigilant, because everybody will have, potentially, more contact with others, so it’s actually a lower level in terms of the alert level but increased vigilance by everybody. Media : Does this mean that you’re not fully confident that you’ve cornered community transmission? I mean, you’ve got 4 percent of cases, slowing case numbers—why such a strict level 3? PM : Yeah, well, two things that I would say—of course, that 4 percent is over the breadth of the time that we’ve been testing, and what you’ve heard Dr Bloomfield talk about today is in the last period of time, in our last cycle of transmission, before we consider what we do next, we’ve got a small handful now of cases that we’re really delving into to see what it’s telling us, so that’s an important distinction to make. Level 3 continues to be really cautious, because the last thing you want to do is move out of level 4 and lose everything. And so that’s why level 3’s designed in that way, but it’s not designed to be a place we want to spend a long time. The last thing I’ll say, just on the judgment call around movement out of lockdown, in the last couple of weeks I’ve spoken to the likes of the Prime Minister of Denmark, who you’ll see has recently started moving out of their lockdown—progressively—and I’ve also spoken to the Prime Minister of Singapore. And what we’ve discussed is the criteria we use. There is no template for the world. There is no set of guidelines that every leader is using—we are all grappling with the same thing. So I’m confident that what we’re doing is applying a rigorous analysis to make our decision. But what we’re also doing is applying analysis for our strategy in New Zealand, which is unique to us. Yeah, we’ll just take the last two. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can I just quickly ask about flu vaccines. There is a practice in Dunedin who would like an apology. They said the Ministry has been over-promising, because they have run out of vaccines, they don’t know when they’re going to get them, they’re getting abuse from people, hundreds of people waiting. What is your response to that? PM : Their region has vaccine; I checked about four days ago. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There’s a lot of vaccine in the system. Two things I would say is: I would love to know the practice and we will absolutely respond to the issue there. We had a shipment that was due to go across to the South Island over the weekend. The ferry was cancelled that it was on, so it’s a few days late. But there’s even more vaccine going down to the South Island, and there are still hundreds of thousands of doses out there in the system that can be delivered. I’m very happy to follow up that specific example. PM : And when we do that, we’ll give you the numbers as well for the DHB, because it was last Tuesday, I believe, that I checked, and there were still at that time—although they were distributed across different pharmacies and different GPs at that time. And so that has been one of the challenges. Media : I guess the question is, there’s people who are really angry and taking it out on these centres who don’t have a vaccine— PM : Which is not OK. Media : —so what is your message? PM : Which is not OK. You know, and I say the same thing: don’t take out frustration on front-line health workers, but, equally, we need to help support those front-line health workers by getting them the vaccine that’s available. Media : Has an index case been identified for the Rosewood rest home? Do you know who brought it in and where they got it from? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It’s not 100 percent clear. And so this is the case in some instances, where we are not able to definitely confirm who the index case is. What is most important there, of course, is that we are making sure we’re preventing any further spread and that we’ve identified any potential close contacts both inside the facility and outside the facility. But we still—and I’ve talked with the DHB twice about this; it’s still not 100 percent certain where the index case is. PM : That’s often—I mean, just from my layperson, having looked at a few clusters and cluster maps, in some cases that’s where you have more than one person who has it, as opposed to not knowing at all where it came from. Media : Is the Invercargill case linked to the Bluff wedding? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It is, yes, linked to the Bluff wedding, yes. Not directly, but indirectly, yes. Media : Prime Minister, just on repatriation flights, for a colleague, they’ve been having reports that people simply are worried that they can’t afford the repatriation flights at such a high cost. Can you just outline why they are so high at the moment compared to the likes of the Wuhan repatriation flight? PM : What I can say is that they go no way near covering the cost of bringing New Zealanders home. I’ve been going over some of the costs of that. We are substantially subsidising bringing those Kiwis home. And what MFAT have tried to do is create a framework that’s broadly in line with some of the commercial rates you would pay to come home on a commercial flight if it were available. So they have tried to be fair. It’s based on the number of hours that you’re on a flight, and there’s different levels then based on how long-haul the flight, versus short-haul, is. I do acknowledge, though, that we are asking for a payment, and that’s because the expectation is if you’re overseas, you would have to get home somehow; it just so happens you’ll be doing it via a flight that New Zealanders are supporting substantially. OK, thank you, everyone. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 16 April
The daily COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference. Transcript of the daily COVID-19 media conference – 19 April 2020
Home Updates Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 19 April --- Section Separator --- PM: Tēnā koutou katoa. Good afternoon. I hope the day is treating everyone well. As is our usual practice, I’ll begin by handing over to Dr Bloomfield for the latest update on cases and testing numbers, and then we’ll run through a bit of an update before taking your questions. Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today, the total number of new cases is nine, and this comprises four confirmed and five probable cases. All of today’s cases are linked to confirmed cases, and the new total of combined confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is 1,431. There are now 912 reported cases of COVID-19 that have recovered from their infection, an increase of 45 on yesterday. Today, there are 18 people in hospital around New Zealand with COVID-19. This includes three people in ICU, one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. Two of these people are in a critical condition. There are still 16 significant clusters around the country—no change from yesterday—and 12 more cases have been connected to clusters, including some of today’s and others from previous days. Yesterday, 4,146 tests were processed in our laboratories around the country, so the rolling seven-day average is 3,151, and a total of 83,224 tests have been conducted to date. Our stock and supply for laboratory testing is now over 90,000 complete tests. Sadly, I am confirming that the death that occurred in Invercargill in the community on Tuesday evening last week is now confirmed as being a COVID-19-related death. I’m extending my sincerest sympathies to the family, and I do ask that you also continue to respect their privacy. Over the last few days, there have been specific efforts in a range of places around the country to do wider community testing to help confirm for us that there is no underlying community transmission of COVID-19. You’ll have heard that the testing in Queenstown and in a number of places in the Waikato on Thursday and Friday respectively showed no positive tests, and there was testing undertaken in Auckland yesterday—a total of 442 samples were tested, with about three-quarters of those results processed. None of those tests have been positive. They, again, those results, and other testing that we will be doing during this coming week, particularly around any cases we find, like the one in Whanganui in the last day or two, where it’s not clear what the source is—we will do some wider testing, and that, again, does help assure us that there isn’t undetected community transmission of COVID-19 happening. In terms of healthcare workers, we have 131 healthcare workers who are confirmed or probable COVID-19 cases. Forty-three of them have recovered. Of our total cases, 50 percent were infected in the workplace, either from colleagues, patients, or residents, in the case of ARC facilities. When we analysed these cases last week, it was clear that a relatively small number had, in fact, been infected by residents or patients and that most of the transmission was between healthcare workers, some of whom had been infected outside of the workplace. We’re continuing to keep a close eye on this, and I’ve asked for an updated analysis of that new number of 131. Finally, I just want to thank today the many people working in our public health services around the country, who have really been at the forefront of both detecting cases, following up close contacts, and investigating any clusters over the last couple of months in New Zealand. They’ve been working around the clock and seven days a week, and I just want to thank them for their efforts in helping lead New Zealand’s response to this. So thank you very much to those workers and to all of those essential workers and healthcare workers who are supporting our overall response. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM: Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. If I could take the opportunity to add my thanks to the members of our public health units from around the country, who, as Dr Bloomfield has said, have been working 24/7 for a long time now as part of that really critical part of our process for managing COVID-19, and that is contact tracing. I actually hope that sometime next week, I might be able to take a Zoom call with some of the team leaders for those PHUs, just to pass on my thanks for the role they play, that most New Zealanders may not have even known existed until now and yet were a critical part of the response to the measles outbreak we had only some months ago and, off the back of that, coming straight into COVID-19. They’re doing an exceptional job. As I have no doubt everybody in New Zealand is acutely aware, Cabinet meets tomorrow to discuss our current COVID alert level 4 and to determine whether to extend it beyond the current deadline, which is, you’ll be aware, midnight on Wednesday. Before I go over how we as a group of Ministers will make that decision, I want to acknowledge that we have been successful to date in rolling out our plan because we’ve had a plan, and we’ve stuck to it, and we’ve done it together. We have stayed home, we have saved lives, and we are breaking the chain of transmission. And the numbers back this up, with the data coming through from Google location tracking showing a huge drop in traffic in our cities as well as far fewer visits to places like beaches and parks. I know it hasn’t been easy, but it has been working. No matter the outcome of Cabinet’s deliberations tomorrow, it is important to remember that this is going to be a long-term project for us all. A move to alert level 3, whenever it comes, is not a return to pre - COVID-19 life for any of us. What eventually changes at alert level 3 is that more of the economy is able to come back online, but our social lives, sadly, will not. If we move too quickly in that area, we undo the good work we have done collectively over some very long days indeed. With that in mind, Cabinet will meet at 10.30 a.m. tomorrow—we have given it an earlier time frame so that we have time for those deliberations—and then we will be sharing the decision that’s been made with all of you at 4 p.m. the same day. Dr Bloomfield will be joining me for that announcement, given the strong role that Health plays in the decision making and the deliberations that Ministers will be a part of tomorrow. Just a quick reminder that there are several things that Ministers will consider—and these were criteria discussed by Ministers some time ago. That criteria includes that the Director-General of Health is satisfied, or there be a level of satisfaction, that there is sufficient data from a range of sources, including testing and surveillance, so public health experts, statisticians, and modellers can have reasonable certainty that undetected community transmission is unlikely; secondly, there is sufficient rigorous and rapid case identification in contact-tracing, with surge capacity available in the case of an outbreak; thirdly, our self-isolation, quarantine, and border measures are robust and adhered to; and, finally, there is capacity in the health system more generally, including the workforce, ICU capacity, plus the availability of PPE for those for whom it is recommended. Alongside that, we will look at the evidence of the effects of the measures on the economy and on society more broadly; public attitudes towards the measures and the extent to which people and businesses understand, accept, and are overall complying with them; and the ability to operationalise restrictions, including satisfactory detailed implementation planning by our all-of-Government team and Government agencies. That, essentially, is all of the information, data, and analysis that we will provide in determining New Zealand’s next move. Now, I share this with you because we have been open and transparent throughout this fight against COVID-19, and I personally believe really strongly that it is only fair. Since we are all in this together, we need to all keep working together for success, and that means us sharing with everyone the factors we’ll be taking into consideration and the data we use. Every day when we come down and share what we know about our testing and our positive cases, how they relate to clusters—that’s information that I receive only a few hours before the public receives it, and that’s because this is a mission that we’re all on together, and that is why we’ve been transparent in sharing all of that information as we’ve gone along. If we can look back, though, it is incredible to think of how swiftly we all acted together. It’s hard to believe that it is only 32 days since we closed our borders to all but returning New Zealanders, on 19 March; 30 days since we announced our COVID alert level system, which was on 21 March; and 25 days since the lockdown began, at 11.59 on Wednesday, 20 March. During that time, our focus has been to protect the health of New Zealanders. Alongside this, we’ve acted to cushion the economic blow as well, to keep as many New Zealanders in jobs as possible and to help businesses remain viable. We do not underestimate the economic impact this has taken on everyone, and that’s why we’ve had that multi-billion dollar set of investments: the 12-week wage subsidy scheme, the Government-backed business finance scheme with banks, the business support package for our smaller and medium-sized organisations, and extra financial support for students. The decision to move New Zealand to alert level 4 was the right one for our health and for our economy. As you will have heard many of us say, the best thing for the economy has always been to stop the virus. But I do want to finish today by saying thank you, in that vein, to a very special group, many of whom have been going through an incredibly hard time but who I have often heard reflecting that in spite of what we’re experiencing, that they still recognise the collective mission we all have right now. That group are our small-business owners and operators. Nobody underestimates how hard this situation is for all of you, but I want to thank you for pouring so much effort into keeping your staff employed and working so hard to keep everyone afloat for the time when you can get back up and running. We’ve put $9 billion into the wage subsidy to help keep more than 1.5 New Zealanders in jobs, but that wouldn’t have worked without businesses making applications and giving their all to keep their staff, who many of them consider their family, connected to work. We are in this together, because that is the only way this will work. But I do want to say thank you for your efforts, and I know New Zealanders will continue to keep acting together to stay safe. We’re happy to take your questions. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I ask you about our contact tracing capacity. There’s been some criticism or questions, I guess, in the past few days about the data that is involved in assessing that capacity. Where are we at? Do we know, for example, the average length of time it takes to contact trace under a level 2 system, and are we ready to come out of lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So one of the factors that, as the Prime Minister said, I’ve got to be assured about is both our capacity and the timeliness of our contact tracing. It’s fair to say, and I’ve read some of the criticism, that the system we came into the COVID-19 pandemic with was one based around our public health units—very much local capability and capacity for smaller outbreaks in those areas. So what we’ve had to rapidly do, of course, is get a national approach and bring that up to a national network, which we are doing. Secondly, the system that is being used is not one that’s particularly easy to get information out of. So we’re updating that ability to get information not just out of that system, which is called EpiSurv, but also to be able to link it to our other health databases. So that work is happening apace. And third, as you’ve pointed out, is what is the capacity both within the public health units and also nationally. Now, you’ll know we’ve set up the national close-contact tracing centre, and over 200 people are trained to do that. What we have been doing and are doing in the first few days again of this week is actually going around to the public health units to identify what are the needs, what are their specific needs, to help increase the capability and capacity there. So I’m of the view that we are definitely on a pathway to having—what I want is no less than a gold-standard contact tracing end-to-end process, because that will be essential for us to be able to safely be within a level 3 and lower alert level. Media: Do you, though, have a sort of gauge on how long it would take, the average length of time, to contact trace at level 2, for example? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what I can say is that the standard we are looking for is to be able to trace 80 percent of people within three days. Now, because all of the current mechanism and the information is held locally at the district health boards, we’ve had to collate that and do a sweep across them to get that information, and that information’s being analysed this weekend and will help inform the decision by Cabinet tomorrow. We will be able to release that in addition to the report by Dr Verrall and the response we have made to that report. That’s being considered by Cabinet tomorrow, and so the intention, Prime Minister, I think is to release it after the Cabinet decision. PM: Thereafter. I think one thing that’s really important to point out is that our success in contact tracing really comes down to the information that people provide. It also comes down to having a very, very swift testing regime. So if I could make two pleas to members of the public: if you even have a sniffle or the slightest sore throat, get a test, because the sooner that we get on top of knowing that someone has the symptoms of COVID-19, the more successful then our isolation and contact tracing will be. The second thing is to all New Zealanders: think about all your movements as if we may come and interview tomorrow and try and find out who you’ve been with. So in all of our contact tracing, having that local—I know everyone will think just simply moving to a national structure is the way to go, and, yes, some standardisation of that data collection’s really important, but unless you have that local knowledge on the ground about places, about people, about community groups, it makes your contact tracing less successful. We, essentially, have to do forensic interviews with people to find out where they’ve been, who they’ve been in contact with, and try and trace the origin of COVID-19. Now, if you then think about that happening at a large scale across the country, it’s a very complex thing to be doing. We have systems in place that now we need to just make sure that we are shoring up even further, that we have greater surge capacity, that the testing turn-around is tight, that we have that gold standard everywhere. Media: How long will it take us to get to where you’d like us to be in terms of contact tracing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m confident we’re on a path to have that up and going within the next week. Media: So if we’re reading into that, then, in terms of tomorrow’s announcement— PM: Don’t read into anything. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah. What I would say is if you look at our testing numbers—and this is the other thing. I know a few weeks ago there was a lot of talk about testing rates here and so on. New Zealand’s got one of the highest testing rates in the world. In particular, that community testing we’ve been doing, as well as the wide testing right across all the regions and across different ethnic groups, shows that we haven’t— we’ve got a high level of confidence there isn’t undetected community transmission ongoing or out there and, secondly, that our contact tracing must also be working quite effectively there on the ground. However, what you will see when we publish Dr Verrall’s report is there is a set of indicators that we want to be achieving around timeliness to make sure that we are achieving that gold standard. Media: Can we perhaps be expecting to stay in lockdown level 4 for another week until we get to that point? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s Cabinet’s decision. PM: We’re not going to get into any hypothetical discussions today about a decision Cabinet will be making tomorrow. But I do think one important thing to keep in mind is we have contact tracing across the country. In every single part of New Zealand, we have the ability to contact trace. Some countries don’t even have that. What we want is to make sure that we just get better and better and better, because it is one of many lines of defence that we need to have. Media: Has there been any progress on technology, the app and that sort of thing, and is that something you would want in place before you went to level 2, for example? PM: No. No, not necessarily. We do see it as an addition, of course, but it will only ever supplement what needs to be excellent contact tracing on the ground, and that has become clear no matter where you look around the world. Singapore, often referred to as a place using technology as part of their contact tracing—they themselves will be the first to admit that it does not solve all of your problems. There’s accuracy over even how Bluetooth works in recognising who you’re in close contact with. It relies on uptake of citizens. There are many reasons why, first and foremost, your foundation needs to be people, supplemented by technology. Media: But are you still pursuing a technological— PM: Yes. We are. We are, and we are still pursuing that. We continue to do work on that, but it will not be the basis on which a decision is made around changes in alert levels. Media: Australia and some European countries are testing sewage to see how widespread it is. Is that something that we can do, and if we can do it, is it something we would look at doing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I’m not sure how many countries are actually doing it— and I’m not even sure Australia is, so I’d be interested to see that. It’s one of the options that you can use as overall surveillance. For example, you’ll know that there is testing of sewage done for illicit drugs to get an idea of whether and what the prevalence of use might be in specific communities. The RNA PCR testing is very sensitive, so you could do it—you could do sewage testing—but you would still need a reasonable rate of infections in the community to be able to detect it. ESR was just looking at how they would do that if it was to be part of our ongoing surveillance. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how confident are you that undetected community transmission is unlikely, and are you satisfied that there’s currently sufficient data to back that up? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, that’s one of the key decision points for Cabinet, so I don’t want to pre-empt the advice we are giving to Cabinet. Again, just to reiterate that we have done a lot of testing in New Zealand, and particularly over these last two weeks, as we’ve seen the number of confirmed cases drop, recalling that the vast majority of those cases in the last three weeks we’ve been able to link to existing cases, overseas travel, or existing clusters. What we’re particularly interested in is the results of the community testing we’ve done in the last few days and those cases that we haven’t been able to pinpoint the source, to do some wider testing around them. That will increasingly increase our level of confidence about the fact there is no undetected community transmission. Media: But so far you must be satisfied or at least encouraged by the community testing results? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think they’re encouraging, and that goes alongside the number of positive cases we’re seeing each day, with that wide testing right across the country and across the range of ethnic groups as well. Media: On that Invercargill death, why has it taken so long to confirm it was COVID-19, and if this person was so ill, why weren’t they in hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I’ll just make some broad comments about that, because I do want to respect the family’s privacy here. This was someone who was being looked after in the community, with daily check-ins. They were at home with family members and wasn’t that clinically unwell, but then the circumstances around that person’s passing were such that we felt it was important to get a really good understanding, because it looked like it could’ve been the first community death from COVID-19. So we requested a post-mortem to help just affirm what the cause of death was, and then that can help inform what our knowledge base is around how we manage people in the community with COVID-19, particularly if they have pre-existing respiratory conditions. Media: Does that mean you’re going to change the advice for how you manage people within the community? Are you going to maybe more regularly put people in hospital just to be safe? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I’ve asked for advice from our chief science adviser, Dr Ian Town, who is a respiratory physician, and he’s going to work with some of his colleagues to look at what the learnings are there. So there are two things, yes: how we might manage people with pre-existing respiratory conditions, and also, if people are at home with COVID-19, what sort of clinical check-in there might be regularly just to check on their condition. So it’s part of informing our ongoing response to COVID-19. Media: In terms of the context of the criteria that you’ve outlined for Cabinet tomorrow, is there any capacity for Cabinet to consider whether some industries explicitly carved out might be able to go back to a level 3 - type operation earlier than the rest of the country? PM: I think what has been important to us is that we’ve stuck really rigorously towards a principle-based framework that really has stuck to the approach that basing our decisions on public health, keeping in mind risk, is the best way that we can protect both the economy, livelihoods, and people’s wellbeing. So there is a risk assessment for everything that we do. You know, we are very, very aware, though—and it’s not just businesses that have been in hibernation for the period of alert level 4; both small and large are feeling it, and we know that all too well, but, ultimately, what we’ve tried to do is create an alert level where we can move as a nation down in between, rather than segmenting off different parts of the economy. What I would say to every business now, though, as I did at the time that we announced the alert levels, we’re moving from essential only to safe only, so prepare yourself and your business, if you’re not currently operating, to be in a position to be able to operate. Do that assessment around social distancing within your workplace. If you’re a retail outlet, do the work around contactless commerce, because we want those who are able to safely open to safely resume when the time comes. Media: Are our quarantine measures and border controls sufficient for a move to level 3? PM: Yes, absolutely. They’re very, very rigorous. We have currently 1,601 individuals who are in facilities managed by the Government. Some of those will be in the stricter version of quarantine, which means they can’t leave at all because they’re symptomatic; others will be in facilities where they’re able to get fresh air but that’s it. Media: And what about our health system? Is our health system able to cope? PM: Yes. I mean, I think one thing that will be clear to everyone is that the huge effort of all New Zealanders has meant that our health system absolutely has been able to cope. We’ve had, ultimately, I think, 69 hospitalisations—relative to our number of cases, that’s been very low. It has been absolutely manageable, but that has been our goal. Our strategy has meant that everyone should be able to get the care they need no matter what, and we’ve managed to do that because of the strategy all New Zealand has adopted. Media: Can I just return to the topic of the app. So it sounds like now that’s an optional thing; it’s something you might not even go down the path of— PM: No, no. Sorry if I haven’t been clear— Media: Will it be formally considered at some point? PM: No, no. Forgive me if I haven’t been clear. The app is absolutely part of our work programme, and work is underway, and it will be a feature of New Zealand’s response. What I’ve said is that it won’t be a part of the criteria around whether we move or not, and in large part that’s because an app will only ever supplement the work that we have to do for contact tracing. And, again, most countries who have an app like this will highlight that you have to have the foundation of people and a people-centred network of contact tracers. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I ask about whether you have any update on how many cases there are where the source of infection is unknown. You mentioned a Whanganui case, I think— Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes—so none today. I understand from yesterday, one of the cases in Whanganui was—the source was unknown, and there was one from two or three days ago in Timaru which is still being worked out. And then prior to that, we had done that analysis of all the outstanding cases that hadn’t been linked from 24 March, and there was just the—all could be linked to cases in clusters except for four that had been put down to community transmission, and we’re working with each of those public health units to not only continue to investigate but also to ensure there is testing right around those cases to ensure there’s no further spread. Media: [Inaudible] encouraging, surely. That’s a very low number. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It is encouraging, and I think particularly just those two more recently. But what we’re doing, for example, in the case of the Timaru man, even though there wasn’t a list of—there weren’t many close contacts—there’s been quite wide testing: all of the folks in his workplace and various other close contacts. So we’re, sort of, making sure that any case now, we’re going in with a very thorough response, and we’re working closely with the public health units, including wide testing. PM: And that’s why part of that ongoing surveillance that Dr Bloomfield’s talked about we’re now attaching to actual cases as well. So Timaru is an example, Whanganui another area, where as soon as we get that data, then using that to do some wider surveillance in that community to see if we can ascertain whether there has been wider undetected community transmission. Media: So there will be targeted testing in Timaru and Whanganui? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: There has been already in Timaru, and Whanganui, from the lab data a couple of weeks ago, had quite low rates of testing, and so they’ve been doing much more testing in this last week just generally across the population, and we’re talking with them today about what sort of additional testing that might be needed to be done around that case just to, again, make sure we’re getting a really confident picture about whether there is wider community transmission or not. PM: And what a position to be in, to be able to do that—knowing individual cases—to be able to respond like that, which is pretty unique to us right now. Media: Dr Bloomfield, what medical procedures would be able to be carried out under level 3, and what is the situation with elective surgery and, kind of, catch-up work that would have to be done in the wider health sector? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So in a sense, the principles that apply to the rest of New Zealand apply within the health sector, and that is moving from not doing much at all to doing whatever is being done safely, and that includes elective surgery and, in particular, urgent diagnostics and surgery for people whose care may have been deferred for a few weeks. So the key thing here is—the principles are we’re doing as much as possible while keeping staff and patients safe, and the DHBs have been working very hard on how to make that happen as we go into alert level 3. Media: But will level 3 give a little bit more flexibility for that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, it certainly will. Media: And also, what is the pressure in terms of the backlog, potentially, of surgeries and that sort of [Inaudible]? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, there’s no doubt there will be a backlog. You will all know how busy our hospitals are in usual circumstances, and most of them have high occupancy rates, they are putting elective procedures through regularly, there’s high demand on diagnostics, so there will be a build-up of care that needs to be delivered, and they’re working on the plans to make sure they move through that as quickly as possible, prioritising those with the highest urgency. Media: So it will be dependent on the levels coming down, presumably, how quickly that backlog can be cleared? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, that’s correct. Media: Prime Minister, you were saying our tracking and tracing is good, that our controls at the border are good, and that our health system is coping, so is that all four criteria met? PM: As I’ve said, jump to no conclusions. That is just a handful of the wider data, analysis, modelling, and also wider societal and economic impacts that we will be considering tomorrow. As you can imagine, this is an incredibly important decision for us to make. No one wants to lose the huge gains we’ve made as a country off the back of the hard work of every New Zealander, and so it’ll be something that we will be giving a lot of consideration, and we’ll be moving cautiously. Media: How much weight are you giving to those economic concerns? Can you give a percent on how much weight you’re— PM: No, look, I can’t weight it in that way, but what we’ve always been really clear on is that our best response and our best recovery in terms of the economy will come off the back of being successful in fighting COVID. What we don’t want in New Zealand is what you’ve seen in many countries around the world, where they have prolonged periods of time with heavy levels of restrictions. We moved hard and early so that we can move as quickly as we can back to as much normality as we can in everyday life, and that includes for our economy. Media: Just on contact tracing, in terms of people, sort of, keeping diaries, you’ve said that people’s own information is best. As we look to potentially move to level 3 and people moving around more, are you asking people to be keeping, sort of, a written record of what they’re actually doing? PM: It’s not necessarily that it’s best, but it’s incredibly helpful. Yes, I would ask New Zealanders to think about doing that. Just keeping a quick note of where you’ve been and who you’ve been with will not only help them; it will help us. But if you imagine even asking someone six days later to recount every movement over a period of time, it’s an incredibly hard task—even, it would be, at alert level 3. And so I am asking New Zealanders to just have new practices, new things that they do at the end of the day, just to help us, because the better that we are able to do at alert levels like that, the sooner we can move further down the alert levels and the sooner life feels more normal. Media: Prime Minister, [Inaudible] announcing your short-term media reforms or support package, and will that also include support for magazines, who feel pretty aggrieved at being left out of publication during level 4? PM: Obviously, the best thing that we can do for those kind of outlets is get back into a position where they’re able to publish, keeping in mind, of course, online offerings have been available and many have continued to work from home. The media package I expect will be in the coming days, but as you’ve heard us talking about, it’s something that we’ve been working on actively over the past week. Media: Dr Bloomfield, are you aware of a mental health staffer who’s tested positive at Tauranga Hospital, and if so, what measures are being taken to contain the spread there out to patients and staff? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I am aware, and I got a text two evenings ago from the chief executive there outlining a very robust and fulsome response to that. And I know the medical officer of health and the staff in the unit have been working very hard on this over the last couple of days to, effectively, ring-fence that, make sure there are no further admissions, test staff and inpatients very widely, and to provide other options for any new people who might require admission to be diverted to either Whakatāne or other DHBs. Media: Do you know roughly how many staff and other people connected with that case are self-isolating? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t know, but we can get that information. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how concerned are you about that transmission within the hospitals that you’ve mentioned? You said only a limited number had actually been transferred from patients, so is it really concerning, then, that we’re seeing that sort of transmit between staff? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the transmission between staff reflects the fact that, as we’ve found globally, a lot of the transmission happens when people are in close contact with each other, usually in the family home, and we know within the hospital setting, too, that colleagues are working close by. It’s much harder for them to keep that physical distancing. And what it points to is the importance of making sure that all those measures are in place—physical distancing but also really good hygiene, particularly handwashing, and availability and appropriate use of PPE. But it also emphasises, you know, that even the best-trained people using appropriate PPE is not fail-safe, and that’s why we have this very low threshold for testing staff if they’re symptomatic and, of course, also for staff staying home and indicating if they have any respiratory symptoms and being tested, and then, of course, going in very hard with standing people down and testing all those who may have been close contacts. Media: Are you confident in the processes that are in place to help keep those workers safe? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I am confident because I know that from my own time at a local district health board, that the infection prevention control specialists and the nurses there are very, very good at both identifying what needs to happen and also training staff in the right procedures. But as I say, again, it’s not always fail-safe, and that’s why we need to have, sort of, those three or four layers of protection for staff. Media: Prime Minister, have you had an update from police at all since you laid out the potential changes to level 3—whether people have maybe heard first-, second-, or third-hand, not been completely on top of the news, and think that those changes have already taken place? Are people being a little bit more liberal with their movements? PM: I haven’t had any direct feedback on that. I do have the daily numbers, and so I’m happy to share them. There’s been 371 breaches in the past 24 hours to 8 p.m. yesterday. Overall, though, our numbers are at 321 prosecutions, 2,700 warnings, 76 youth referrals. Also important to note that we’ve had, of course, a number of prevention patrols. So between 16 and 18 April, 3,436 prevention patrols. I think it’s probably hard for us to get a true sense, because the police, I think, are probably where they think that there might be risk of drops in compliance, up their patrols, and, of course, that means that they’ll be issuing perhaps warnings more frequently if they’re more present. Overall, though, the Google analysis that we have, which everyone can see is made available publicly, is actually New Zealand’s compliance relative to other countries has been very, very high. So regardless of whether or not there’s been perhaps some confusion, overall, New Zealand as a country has done exceptionally well with what has been a really, really rigorous approach that we’ve taken as part of our strategy as a country. Media: Prime Minister, a question from our sports team. The NRL has said that the Warriors have been granted some type of exemption to go over to Australia near the start of May. What’s your understanding of this exemption? PM: The Minister for Sport is perhaps somewhat ill-prepared to answer this question, based on his attire, but he sits amongst you, and what I might get him to do is respond to that after the press conference. That’s certainly not something I’ve been advised of. What I do know is that some thought has been given to different codes, how they’ll operate once we get lower down in the alert system. Are there ways that we can create, almost, bubbles for teams that are in professional competitions, to enable them to continue? But it feels to me like it’s quite early days. With regard to the NRL, I’ll leave it to the Minister for Sport to give you some more detail. Media: Can I just clarify those six cases you talked about before, the community transmission ones. There are about 40-odd cases—you know, the 3 percent of all cases that are community transmissions. Does that mean the other 35-, 36-odd are just a few cycles old and they’re not of high concern? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. They predated 24 March. And, again, of those six, four have been categorised as community transmission; two are still under investigation. PM: Yeah. So we’ve been keeping a very close eye on this last two-week period of transmission. That’s what we’re monitoring very, very closely. Media: Dr Bloomfield, I’ve heard some concerns from Māori health practitioners that they don’t have enough ethnicity data to help mobilise in Māori and Pacific communities. Do you have an update on the ethnicity data collection, and also, in addition of the 912 recoveries, can you tell us how many are Māori and Pacific? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So if I go to the latter point first, I don’t have the breakdown of those who’ve recovered. We do have the breakdown by ethnicity of all cases, and that is updated each day. The latest figures will be on our website after this briefing. What I can also say is I think one of the concerns has been amongst Māori practitioners, and likewise we have Pacific practitioners who are advising us as well, that they wanted to be assured that both these groups were being tested, and particularly because we do know that in these sorts of events, they tend to be groups that have poorer outcomes if they get infections in those communities. And so two things there: one is our rate of testing amongst those communities, based on the updated data from last week, shows over 15 percent of the testing has been done amongst Māori and about 8 percent amongst Pacific. So that’s one thing. And the second thing is we are complementing that with some focused testing, and particularly in some of those more rural Māori communities in Tai Rāwhiti and Taranaki. And, actually, on the Hauora Tairāwhiti website right at the moment, it talks about the testing that’s going to happen over this next few days in a number of those remote communities on the East Coast and further inland as well, just to help provide us with that assurance that we haven’t got undetected COVID-19 in those key groups. Media: Prime Minister, on the eve of the Cabinet decision tomorrow, how does it feel to have the option of lifting out of level 4 lockdown? Many, many countries around the world couldn’t even fathom that, at the point they’re at. PM: I think that’s a really good point. I often reflect, when I sit and talk with the director-general about an individual case, or when I talk about an individual person in hospital care, that we are still, despite battling COVID-19 ourselves, in a very privileged position to be able to talk about individuals, when I look overseas and see that some places, they are tracking thousands a day. And so that does mean that we’re lucky, but we’re lucky because every New Zealander has joined us in a mission to get rid of COVID19 in New Zealand. Media: Did you think we’d be in this position when you announced the lockdown 30 days ago? PM: You’ll remember that at the time, someone asked me whether or not I was afraid, and my answer to that was no because we have a plan. But what everyone has proven is that we’ve been able to fulfil that plan because we’ve been in it together. And so I did think it was possible, and New Zealanders proved it. Media: Will this be a more difficult decision than the one you made to go into level 4? PM: I think every decision here has been difficult, not only because we’re dealing with a virus that keeps teaching us new things but also because we, in some ways, are doing things differently, and so it’s not always possible to look to another country for examples. We are carving our own path here. So some of that does make it difficult, but I have confidence in the data we have, the analysis that we’re providing, and the quality of the people that we’re working with, that we’ll make the right decision. Media: Prime Minister, with Anzac Day this Saturday, I’m just wondering how you’ll be preparing to celebrate the unique type of day and how you [Inaudible] a bit differently this year. PM: Yeah, and we will have to do Anzac Day differently this year. But despite that, I hope that—actually, I hope that we will see even more participate, in their own way, because of it. I do think it will have a different feeling, and many have reflected on the fact that the huge sacrifices that generations before us have made at times when the international community has faced challenges that are, frankly, unprecedented. Our challenge is a different one, but I think it brings home exactly what it is that our forefathers have gone through. I hope that we’ll see that recognition in people’s own commemorations. I’ll provide a little bit more detail next week on what it will mean for me and the Government. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the CHT St Margaret’s cluster—the residents there who were taken to hospital. How many of those residents who were taken to hospital have since tested positive, and how many staff have also tested positive, and why were they taken to two separate hospitals? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: My understanding is there are six residents who are in Waitakere Hospital, and they were all COVID-19 positive, and they were taken there to be cared for there. I don’t think they were in two separate hospitals, but I stand to be corrected on that. And when I last spoke with the chief executive there a day or two ago, there were five staff members who were infected, and the other cases associated with that cluster are community-based—so family members of the staff members. Media: How concerning is the Whanganui case of a person in their 20s with no known links to the region’s other seven cases, and will instances like that play into your decision making on alert levels? PM: As we have talked about in these last two weeks, we have been getting down to analysing individual cases to see what they tell us about potential community transmission, and when we see that, doing follow up to then test whether or not there is anything wider happening within those communities. But what I would say is this demonstrates also the job that our contact tracers have. They have to go in and conduct sometimes forensic interviews to try and ascertain what exactly has happened with a case that is a little bit more difficult to build a picture. But it gives you a sense of exactly what we’ll be weighing up as a Cabinet tomorrow. Media: And one more on shopping centres. The New Zealand Retail Property Group’s saying that there should be a rethink on the opening of the malls during level 3. They say centre managers can safely organise their operations to maintain social distancing. Would you reconsider malls? PM: No. In fact, retail all falls in the same category, whether or not they’re a mall or a retail store on the main street of a small town. We’re asking them to adopt contactless trade, whether that’s online, over-the-phone orders, drive in, or contactless exchanges. Ultimately, we do want commerce to start up again, but we need to reduce down face-to-face contact still at alert level 3 as much as we can. Our hope, though, is to not be there too long. OK. Thank you, everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- PM: Tēnā koutou katoa. Good afternoon. I hope the day is treating everyone well. As is our usual practice, I’ll begin by handing over to Dr Bloomfield for the latest update on cases and testing numbers, and then we’ll run through a bit of an update before taking your questions. Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today, the total number of new cases is nine, and this comprises four confirmed and five probable cases. All of today’s cases are linked to confirmed cases, and the new total of combined confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand is 1,431. There are now 912 reported cases of COVID-19 that have recovered from their infection, an increase of 45 on yesterday. Today, there are 18 people in hospital around New Zealand with COVID-19. This includes three people in ICU, one each in Middlemore, Dunedin, and North Shore hospitals. Two of these people are in a critical condition. There are still 16 significant clusters around the country—no change from yesterday—and 12 more cases have been connected to clusters, including some of today’s and others from previous days. Yesterday, 4,146 tests were processed in our laboratories around the country, so the rolling seven-day average is 3,151, and a total of 83,224 tests have been conducted to date. Our stock and supply for laboratory testing is now over 90,000 complete tests. Sadly, I am confirming that the death that occurred in Invercargill in the community on Tuesday evening last week is now confirmed as being a COVID-19-related death. I’m extending my sincerest sympathies to the family, and I do ask that you also continue to respect their privacy. Over the last few days, there have been specific efforts in a range of places around the country to do wider community testing to help confirm for us that there is no underlying community transmission of COVID-19. You’ll have heard that the testing in Queenstown and in a number of places in the Waikato on Thursday and Friday respectively showed no positive tests, and there was testing undertaken in Auckland yesterday—a total of 442 samples were tested, with about three-quarters of those results processed. None of those tests have been positive. They, again, those results, and other testing that we will be doing during this coming week, particularly around any cases we find, like the one in Whanganui in the last day or two, where it’s not clear what the source is—we will do some wider testing, and that, again, does help assure us that there isn’t undetected community transmission of COVID-19 happening. In terms of healthcare workers, we have 131 healthcare workers who are confirmed or probable COVID-19 cases. Forty-three of them have recovered. Of our total cases, 50 percent were infected in the workplace, either from colleagues, patients, or residents, in the case of ARC facilities. When we analysed these cases last week, it was clear that a relatively small number had, in fact, been infected by residents or patients and that most of the transmission was between healthcare workers, some of whom had been infected outside of the workplace. We’re continuing to keep a close eye on this, and I’ve asked for an updated analysis of that new number of 131. Finally, I just want to thank today the many people working in our public health services around the country, who have really been at the forefront of both detecting cases, following up close contacts, and investigating any clusters over the last couple of months in New Zealand. They’ve been working around the clock and seven days a week, and I just want to thank them for their efforts in helping lead New Zealand’s response to this. So thank you very much to those workers and to all of those essential workers and healthcare workers who are supporting our overall response. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM: Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. If I could take the opportunity to add my thanks to the members of our public health units from around the country, who, as Dr Bloomfield has said, have been working 24/7 for a long time now as part of that really critical part of our process for managing COVID-19, and that is contact tracing. I actually hope that sometime next week, I might be able to take a Zoom call with some of the team leaders for those PHUs, just to pass on my thanks for the role they play, that most New Zealanders may not have even known existed until now and yet were a critical part of the response to the measles outbreak we had only some months ago and, off the back of that, coming straight into COVID-19. They’re doing an exceptional job. As I have no doubt everybody in New Zealand is acutely aware, Cabinet meets tomorrow to discuss our current COVID alert level 4 and to determine whether to extend it beyond the current deadline, which is, you’ll be aware, midnight on Wednesday. Before I go over how we as a group of Ministers will make that decision, I want to acknowledge that we have been successful to date in rolling out our plan because we’ve had a plan, and we’ve stuck to it, and we’ve done it together. We have stayed home, we have saved lives, and we are breaking the chain of transmission. And the numbers back this up, with the data coming through from Google location tracking showing a huge drop in traffic in our cities as well as far fewer visits to places like beaches and parks. I know it hasn’t been easy, but it has been working. No matter the outcome of Cabinet’s deliberations tomorrow, it is important to remember that this is going to be a long-term project for us all. A move to alert level 3, whenever it comes, is not a return to pre - COVID-19 life for any of us. What eventually changes at alert level 3 is that more of the economy is able to come back online, but our social lives, sadly, will not. If we move too quickly in that area, we undo the good work we have done collectively over some very long days indeed. With that in mind, Cabinet will meet at 10.30 a.m. tomorrow—we have given it an earlier time frame so that we have time for those deliberations—and then we will be sharing the decision that’s been made with all of you at 4 p.m. the same day. Dr Bloomfield will be joining me for that announcement, given the strong role that Health plays in the decision making and the deliberations that Ministers will be a part of tomorrow. Just a quick reminder that there are several things that Ministers will consider—and these were criteria discussed by Ministers some time ago. That criteria includes that the Director-General of Health is satisfied, or there be a level of satisfaction, that there is sufficient data from a range of sources, including testing and surveillance, so public health experts, statisticians, and modellers can have reasonable certainty that undetected community transmission is unlikely; secondly, there is sufficient rigorous and rapid case identification in contact-tracing, with surge capacity available in the case of an outbreak; thirdly, our self-isolation, quarantine, and border measures are robust and adhered to; and, finally, there is capacity in the health system more generally, including the workforce, ICU capacity, plus the availability of PPE for those for whom it is recommended. Alongside that, we will look at the evidence of the effects of the measures on the economy and on society more broadly; public attitudes towards the measures and the extent to which people and businesses understand, accept, and are overall complying with them; and the ability to operationalise restrictions, including satisfactory detailed implementation planning by our all-of-Government team and Government agencies. That, essentially, is all of the information, data, and analysis that we will provide in determining New Zealand’s next move. Now, I share this with you because we have been open and transparent throughout this fight against COVID-19, and I personally believe really strongly that it is only fair. Since we are all in this together, we need to all keep working together for success, and that means us sharing with everyone the factors we’ll be taking into consideration and the data we use. Every day when we come down and share what we know about our testing and our positive cases, how they relate to clusters—that’s information that I receive only a few hours before the public receives it, and that’s because this is a mission that we’re all on together, and that is why we’ve been transparent in sharing all of that information as we’ve gone along. If we can look back, though, it is incredible to think of how swiftly we all acted together. It’s hard to believe that it is only 32 days since we closed our borders to all but returning New Zealanders, on 19 March; 30 days since we announced our COVID alert level system, which was on 21 March; and 25 days since the lockdown began, at 11.59 on Wednesday, 20 March. During that time, our focus has been to protect the health of New Zealanders. Alongside this, we’ve acted to cushion the economic blow as well, to keep as many New Zealanders in jobs as possible and to help businesses remain viable. We do not underestimate the economic impact this has taken on everyone, and that’s why we’ve had that multi-billion dollar set of investments: the 12-week wage subsidy scheme, the Government-backed business finance scheme with banks, the business support package for our smaller and medium-sized organisations, and extra financial support for students. The decision to move New Zealand to alert level 4 was the right one for our health and for our economy. As you will have heard many of us say, the best thing for the economy has always been to stop the virus. But I do want to finish today by saying thank you, in that vein, to a very special group, many of whom have been going through an incredibly hard time but who I have often heard reflecting that in spite of what we’re experiencing, that they still recognise the collective mission we all have right now. That group are our small-business owners and operators. Nobody underestimates how hard this situation is for all of you, but I want to thank you for pouring so much effort into keeping your staff employed and working so hard to keep everyone afloat for the time when you can get back up and running. We’ve put $9 billion into the wage subsidy to help keep more than 1.5 New Zealanders in jobs, but that wouldn’t have worked without businesses making applications and giving their all to keep their staff, who many of them consider their family, connected to work. We are in this together, because that is the only way this will work. But I do want to say thank you for your efforts, and I know New Zealanders will continue to keep acting together to stay safe. We’re happy to take your questions. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I ask you about our contact tracing capacity. There’s been some criticism or questions, I guess, in the past few days about the data that is involved in assessing that capacity. Where are we at? Do we know, for example, the average length of time it takes to contact trace under a level 2 system, and are we ready to come out of lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So one of the factors that, as the Prime Minister said, I’ve got to be assured about is both our capacity and the timeliness of our contact tracing. It’s fair to say, and I’ve read some of the criticism, that the system we came into the COVID-19 pandemic with was one based around our public health units—very much local capability and capacity for smaller outbreaks in those areas. So what we’ve had to rapidly do, of course, is get a national approach and bring that up to a national network, which we are doing. Secondly, the system that is being used is not one that’s particularly easy to get information out of. So we’re updating that ability to get information not just out of that system, which is called EpiSurv, but also to be able to link it to our other health databases. So that work is happening apace. And third, as you’ve pointed out, is what is the capacity both within the public health units and also nationally. Now, you’ll know we’ve set up the national close-contact tracing centre, and over 200 people are trained to do that. What we have been doing and are doing in the first few days again of this week is actually going around to the public health units to identify what are the needs, what are their specific needs, to help increase the capability and capacity there. So I’m of the view that we are definitely on a pathway to having—what I want is no less than a gold-standard contact tracing end-to-end process, because that will be essential for us to be able to safely be within a level 3 and lower alert level. Media: Do you, though, have a sort of gauge on how long it would take, the average length of time, to contact trace at level 2, for example? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what I can say is that the standard we are looking for is to be able to trace 80 percent of people within three days. Now, because all of the current mechanism and the information is held locally at the district health boards, we’ve had to collate that and do a sweep across them to get that information, and that information’s being analysed this weekend and will help inform the decision by Cabinet tomorrow. We will be able to release that in addition to the report by Dr Verrall and the response we have made to that report. That’s being considered by Cabinet tomorrow, and so the intention, Prime Minister, I think is to release it after the Cabinet decision. PM: Thereafter. I think one thing that’s really important to point out is that our success in contact tracing really comes down to the information that people provide. It also comes down to having a very, very swift testing regime. So if I could make two pleas to members of the public: if you even have a sniffle or the slightest sore throat, get a test, because the sooner that we get on top of knowing that someone has the symptoms of COVID-19, the more successful then our isolation and contact tracing will be. The second thing is to all New Zealanders: think about all your movements as if we may come and interview tomorrow and try and find out who you’ve been with. So in all of our contact tracing, having that local—I know everyone will think just simply moving to a national structure is the way to go, and, yes, some standardisation of that data collection’s really important, but unless you have that local knowledge on the ground about places, about people, about community groups, it makes your contact tracing less successful. We, essentially, have to do forensic interviews with people to find out where they’ve been, who they’ve been in contact with, and try and trace the origin of COVID-19. Now, if you then think about that happening at a large scale across the country, it’s a very complex thing to be doing. We have systems in place that now we need to just make sure that we are shoring up even further, that we have greater surge capacity, that the testing turn-around is tight, that we have that gold standard everywhere. Media: How long will it take us to get to where you’d like us to be in terms of contact tracing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m confident we’re on a path to have that up and going within the next week. Media: So if we’re reading into that, then, in terms of tomorrow’s announcement— PM: Don’t read into anything. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah. What I would say is if you look at our testing numbers—and this is the other thing. I know a few weeks ago there was a lot of talk about testing rates here and so on. New Zealand’s got one of the highest testing rates in the world. In particular, that community testing we’ve been doing, as well as the wide testing right across all the regions and across different ethnic groups, shows that we haven’t— we’ve got a high level of confidence there isn’t undetected community transmission ongoing or out there and, secondly, that our contact tracing must also be working quite effectively there on the ground. However, what you will see when we publish Dr Verrall’s report is there is a set of indicators that we want to be achieving around timeliness to make sure that we are achieving that gold standard. Media: Can we perhaps be expecting to stay in lockdown level 4 for another week until we get to that point? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s Cabinet’s decision. PM: We’re not going to get into any hypothetical discussions today about a decision Cabinet will be making tomorrow. But I do think one important thing to keep in mind is we have contact tracing across the country. In every single part of New Zealand, we have the ability to contact trace. Some countries don’t even have that. What we want is to make sure that we just get better and better and better, because it is one of many lines of defence that we need to have. Media: Has there been any progress on technology, the app and that sort of thing, and is that something you would want in place before you went to level 2, for example? PM: No. No, not necessarily. We do see it as an addition, of course, but it will only ever supplement what needs to be excellent contact tracing on the ground, and that has become clear no matter where you look around the world. Singapore, often referred to as a place using technology as part of their contact tracing—they themselves will be the first to admit that it does not solve all of your problems. There’s accuracy over even how Bluetooth works in recognising who you’re in close contact with. It relies on uptake of citizens. There are many reasons why, first and foremost, your foundation needs to be people, supplemented by technology. Media: But are you still pursuing a technological— PM: Yes. We are. We are, and we are still pursuing that. We continue to do work on that, but it will not be the basis on which a decision is made around changes in alert levels. Media: Australia and some European countries are testing sewage to see how widespread it is. Is that something that we can do, and if we can do it, is it something we would look at doing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I’m not sure how many countries are actually doing it— and I’m not even sure Australia is, so I’d be interested to see that. It’s one of the options that you can use as overall surveillance. For example, you’ll know that there is testing of sewage done for illicit drugs to get an idea of whether and what the prevalence of use might be in specific communities. The RNA PCR testing is very sensitive, so you could do it—you could do sewage testing—but you would still need a reasonable rate of infections in the community to be able to detect it. ESR was just looking at how they would do that if it was to be part of our ongoing surveillance. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how confident are you that undetected community transmission is unlikely, and are you satisfied that there’s currently sufficient data to back that up? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, that’s one of the key decision points for Cabinet, so I don’t want to pre-empt the advice we are giving to Cabinet. Again, just to reiterate that we have done a lot of testing in New Zealand, and particularly over these last two weeks, as we’ve seen the number of confirmed cases drop, recalling that the vast majority of those cases in the last three weeks we’ve been able to link to existing cases, overseas travel, or existing clusters. What we’re particularly interested in is the results of the community testing we’ve done in the last few days and those cases that we haven’t been able to pinpoint the source, to do some wider testing around them. That will increasingly increase our level of confidence about the fact there is no undetected community transmission. Media: But so far you must be satisfied or at least encouraged by the community testing results? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think they’re encouraging, and that goes alongside the number of positive cases we’re seeing each day, with that wide testing right across the country and across the range of ethnic groups as well. Media: On that Invercargill death, why has it taken so long to confirm it was COVID-19, and if this person was so ill, why weren’t they in hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I’ll just make some broad comments about that, because I do want to respect the family’s privacy here. This was someone who was being looked after in the community, with daily check-ins. They were at home with family members and wasn’t that clinically unwell, but then the circumstances around that person’s passing were such that we felt it was important to get a really good understanding, because it looked like it could’ve been the first community death from COVID-19. So we requested a post-mortem to help just affirm what the cause of death was, and then that can help inform what our knowledge base is around how we manage people in the community with COVID-19, particularly if they have pre-existing respiratory conditions. Media: Does that mean you’re going to change the advice for how you manage people within the community? Are you going to maybe more regularly put people in hospital just to be safe? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I’ve asked for advice from our chief science adviser, Dr Ian Town, who is a respiratory physician, and he’s going to work with some of his colleagues to look at what the learnings are there. So there are two things, yes: how we might manage people with pre-existing respiratory conditions, and also, if people are at home with COVID-19, what sort of clinical check-in there might be regularly just to check on their condition. So it’s part of informing our ongoing response to COVID-19. Media: In terms of the context of the criteria that you’ve outlined for Cabinet tomorrow, is there any capacity for Cabinet to consider whether some industries explicitly carved out might be able to go back to a level 3 - type operation earlier than the rest of the country? PM: I think what has been important to us is that we’ve stuck really rigorously towards a principle-based framework that really has stuck to the approach that basing our decisions on public health, keeping in mind risk, is the best way that we can protect both the economy, livelihoods, and people’s wellbeing. So there is a risk assessment for everything that we do. You know, we are very, very aware, though—and it’s not just businesses that have been in hibernation for the period of alert level 4; both small and large are feeling it, and we know that all too well, but, ultimately, what we’ve tried to do is create an alert level where we can move as a nation down in between, rather than segmenting off different parts of the economy. What I would say to every business now, though, as I did at the time that we announced the alert levels, we’re moving from essential only to safe only, so prepare yourself and your business, if you’re not currently operating, to be in a position to be able to operate. Do that assessment around social distancing within your workplace. If you’re a retail outlet, do the work around contactless commerce, because we want those who are able to safely open to safely resume when the time comes. Media: Are our quarantine measures and border controls sufficient for a move to level 3? PM: Yes, absolutely. They’re very, very rigorous. We have currently 1,601 individuals who are in facilities managed by the Government. Some of those will be in the stricter version of quarantine, which means they can’t leave at all because they’re symptomatic; others will be in facilities where they’re able to get fresh air but that’s it. Media: And what about our health system? Is our health system able to cope? PM: Yes. I mean, I think one thing that will be clear to everyone is that the huge effort of all New Zealanders has meant that our health system absolutely has been able to cope. We’ve had, ultimately, I think, 69 hospitalisations—relative to our number of cases, that’s been very low. It has been absolutely manageable, but that has been our goal. Our strategy has meant that everyone should be able to get the care they need no matter what, and we’ve managed to do that because of the strategy all New Zealand has adopted. Media: Can I just return to the topic of the app. So it sounds like now that’s an optional thing; it’s something you might not even go down the path of— PM: No, no. Sorry if I haven’t been clear— Media: Will it be formally considered at some point? PM: No, no. Forgive me if I haven’t been clear. The app is absolutely part of our work programme, and work is underway, and it will be a feature of New Zealand’s response. What I’ve said is that it won’t be a part of the criteria around whether we move or not, and in large part that’s because an app will only ever supplement the work that we have to do for contact tracing. And, again, most countries who have an app like this will highlight that you have to have the foundation of people and a people-centred network of contact tracers. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I ask about whether you have any update on how many cases there are where the source of infection is unknown. You mentioned a Whanganui case, I think— Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes—so none today. I understand from yesterday, one of the cases in Whanganui was—the source was unknown, and there was one from two or three days ago in Timaru which is still being worked out. And then prior to that, we had done that analysis of all the outstanding cases that hadn’t been linked from 24 March, and there was just the—all could be linked to cases in clusters except for four that had been put down to community transmission, and we’re working with each of those public health units to not only continue to investigate but also to ensure there is testing right around those cases to ensure there’s no further spread. Media: [Inaudible] encouraging, surely. That’s a very low number. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It is encouraging, and I think particularly just those two more recently. But what we’re doing, for example, in the case of the Timaru man, even though there wasn’t a list of—there weren’t many close contacts—there’s been quite wide testing: all of the folks in his workplace and various other close contacts. So we’re, sort of, making sure that any case now, we’re going in with a very thorough response, and we’re working closely with the public health units, including wide testing. PM: And that’s why part of that ongoing surveillance that Dr Bloomfield’s talked about we’re now attaching to actual cases as well. So Timaru is an example, Whanganui another area, where as soon as we get that data, then using that to do some wider surveillance in that community to see if we can ascertain whether there has been wider undetected community transmission. Media: So there will be targeted testing in Timaru and Whanganui? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: There has been already in Timaru, and Whanganui, from the lab data a couple of weeks ago, had quite low rates of testing, and so they’ve been doing much more testing in this last week just generally across the population, and we’re talking with them today about what sort of additional testing that might be needed to be done around that case just to, again, make sure we’re getting a really confident picture about whether there is wider community transmission or not. PM: And what a position to be in, to be able to do that—knowing individual cases—to be able to respond like that, which is pretty unique to us right now. Media: Dr Bloomfield, what medical procedures would be able to be carried out under level 3, and what is the situation with elective surgery and, kind of, catch-up work that would have to be done in the wider health sector? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So in a sense, the principles that apply to the rest of New Zealand apply within the health sector, and that is moving from not doing much at all to doing whatever is being done safely, and that includes elective surgery and, in particular, urgent diagnostics and surgery for people whose care may have been deferred for a few weeks. So the key thing here is—the principles are we’re doing as much as possible while keeping staff and patients safe, and the DHBs have been working very hard on how to make that happen as we go into alert level 3. Media: But will level 3 give a little bit more flexibility for that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, it certainly will. Media: And also, what is the pressure in terms of the backlog, potentially, of surgeries and that sort of [Inaudible]? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, there’s no doubt there will be a backlog. You will all know how busy our hospitals are in usual circumstances, and most of them have high occupancy rates, they are putting elective procedures through regularly, there’s high demand on diagnostics, so there will be a build-up of care that needs to be delivered, and they’re working on the plans to make sure they move through that as quickly as possible, prioritising those with the highest urgency. Media: So it will be dependent on the levels coming down, presumably, how quickly that backlog can be cleared? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, that’s correct. Media: Prime Minister, you were saying our tracking and tracing is good, that our controls at the border are good, and that our health system is coping, so is that all four criteria met? PM: As I’ve said, jump to no conclusions. That is just a handful of the wider data, analysis, modelling, and also wider societal and economic impacts that we will be considering tomorrow. As you can imagine, this is an incredibly important decision for us to make. No one wants to lose the huge gains we’ve made as a country off the back of the hard work of every New Zealander, and so it’ll be something that we will be giving a lot of consideration, and we’ll be moving cautiously. Media: How much weight are you giving to those economic concerns? Can you give a percent on how much weight you’re— PM: No, look, I can’t weight it in that way, but what we’ve always been really clear on is that our best response and our best recovery in terms of the economy will come off the back of being successful in fighting COVID. What we don’t want in New Zealand is what you’ve seen in many countries around the world, where they have prolonged periods of time with heavy levels of restrictions. We moved hard and early so that we can move as quickly as we can back to as much normality as we can in everyday life, and that includes for our economy. Media: Just on contact tracing, in terms of people, sort of, keeping diaries, you’ve said that people’s own information is best. As we look to potentially move to level 3 and people moving around more, are you asking people to be keeping, sort of, a written record of what they’re actually doing? PM: It’s not necessarily that it’s best, but it’s incredibly helpful. Yes, I would ask New Zealanders to think about doing that. Just keeping a quick note of where you’ve been and who you’ve been with will not only help them; it will help us. But if you imagine even asking someone six days later to recount every movement over a period of time, it’s an incredibly hard task—even, it would be, at alert level 3. And so I am asking New Zealanders to just have new practices, new things that they do at the end of the day, just to help us, because the better that we are able to do at alert levels like that, the sooner we can move further down the alert levels and the sooner life feels more normal. Media: Prime Minister, [Inaudible] announcing your short-term media reforms or support package, and will that also include support for magazines, who feel pretty aggrieved at being left out of publication during level 4? PM: Obviously, the best thing that we can do for those kind of outlets is get back into a position where they’re able to publish, keeping in mind, of course, online offerings have been available and many have continued to work from home. The media package I expect will be in the coming days, but as you’ve heard us talking about, it’s something that we’ve been working on actively over the past week. Media: Dr Bloomfield, are you aware of a mental health staffer who’s tested positive at Tauranga Hospital, and if so, what measures are being taken to contain the spread there out to patients and staff? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I am aware, and I got a text two evenings ago from the chief executive there outlining a very robust and fulsome response to that. And I know the medical officer of health and the staff in the unit have been working very hard on this over the last couple of days to, effectively, ring-fence that, make sure there are no further admissions, test staff and inpatients very widely, and to provide other options for any new people who might require admission to be diverted to either Whakatāne or other DHBs. Media: Do you know roughly how many staff and other people connected with that case are self-isolating? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t know, but we can get that information. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how concerned are you about that transmission within the hospitals that you’ve mentioned? You said only a limited number had actually been transferred from patients, so is it really concerning, then, that we’re seeing that sort of transmit between staff? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the transmission between staff reflects the fact that, as we’ve found globally, a lot of the transmission happens when people are in close contact with each other, usually in the family home, and we know within the hospital setting, too, that colleagues are working close by. It’s much harder for them to keep that physical distancing. And what it points to is the importance of making sure that all those measures are in place—physical distancing but also really good hygiene, particularly handwashing, and availability and appropriate use of PPE. But it also emphasises, you know, that even the best-trained people using appropriate PPE is not fail-safe, and that’s why we have this very low threshold for testing staff if they’re symptomatic and, of course, also for staff staying home and indicating if they have any respiratory symptoms and being tested, and then, of course, going in very hard with standing people down and testing all those who may have been close contacts. Media: Are you confident in the processes that are in place to help keep those workers safe? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I am confident because I know that from my own time at a local district health board, that the infection prevention control specialists and the nurses there are very, very good at both identifying what needs to happen and also training staff in the right procedures. But as I say, again, it’s not always fail-safe, and that’s why we need to have, sort of, those three or four layers of protection for staff. Media: Prime Minister, have you had an update from police at all since you laid out the potential changes to level 3—whether people have maybe heard first-, second-, or third-hand, not been completely on top of the news, and think that those changes have already taken place? Are people being a little bit more liberal with their movements? PM: I haven’t had any direct feedback on that. I do have the daily numbers, and so I’m happy to share them. There’s been 371 breaches in the past 24 hours to 8 p.m. yesterday. Overall, though, our numbers are at 321 prosecutions, 2,700 warnings, 76 youth referrals. Also important to note that we’ve had, of course, a number of prevention patrols. So between 16 and 18 April, 3,436 prevention patrols. I think it’s probably hard for us to get a true sense, because the police, I think, are probably where they think that there might be risk of drops in compliance, up their patrols, and, of course, that means that they’ll be issuing perhaps warnings more frequently if they’re more present. Overall, though, the Google analysis that we have, which everyone can see is made available publicly, is actually New Zealand’s compliance relative to other countries has been very, very high. So regardless of whether or not there’s been perhaps some confusion, overall, New Zealand as a country has done exceptionally well with what has been a really, really rigorous approach that we’ve taken as part of our strategy as a country. Media: Prime Minister, a question from our sports team. The NRL has said that the Warriors have been granted some type of exemption to go over to Australia near the start of May. What’s your understanding of this exemption? PM: The Minister for Sport is perhaps somewhat ill-prepared to answer this question, based on his attire, but he sits amongst you, and what I might get him to do is respond to that after the press conference. That’s certainly not something I’ve been advised of. What I do know is that some thought has been given to different codes, how they’ll operate once we get lower down in the alert system. Are there ways that we can create, almost, bubbles for teams that are in professional competitions, to enable them to continue? But it feels to me like it’s quite early days. With regard to the NRL, I’ll leave it to the Minister for Sport to give you some more detail. Media: Can I just clarify those six cases you talked about before, the community transmission ones. There are about 40-odd cases—you know, the 3 percent of all cases that are community transmissions. Does that mean the other 35-, 36-odd are just a few cycles old and they’re not of high concern? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. They predated 24 March. And, again, of those six, four have been categorised as community transmission; two are still under investigation. PM: Yeah. So we’ve been keeping a very close eye on this last two-week period of transmission. That’s what we’re monitoring very, very closely. Media: Dr Bloomfield, I’ve heard some concerns from Māori health practitioners that they don’t have enough ethnicity data to help mobilise in Māori and Pacific communities. Do you have an update on the ethnicity data collection, and also, in addition of the 912 recoveries, can you tell us how many are Māori and Pacific? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So if I go to the latter point first, I don’t have the breakdown of those who’ve recovered. We do have the breakdown by ethnicity of all cases, and that is updated each day. The latest figures will be on our website after this briefing. What I can also say is I think one of the concerns has been amongst Māori practitioners, and likewise we have Pacific practitioners who are advising us as well, that they wanted to be assured that both these groups were being tested, and particularly because we do know that in these sorts of events, they tend to be groups that have poorer outcomes if they get infections in those communities. And so two things there: one is our rate of testing amongst those communities, based on the updated data from last week, shows over 15 percent of the testing has been done amongst Māori and about 8 percent amongst Pacific. So that’s one thing. And the second thing is we are complementing that with some focused testing, and particularly in some of those more rural Māori communities in Tai Rāwhiti and Taranaki. And, actually, on the Hauora Tairāwhiti website right at the moment, it talks about the testing that’s going to happen over this next few days in a number of those remote communities on the East Coast and further inland as well, just to help provide us with that assurance that we haven’t got undetected COVID-19 in those key groups. Media: Prime Minister, on the eve of the Cabinet decision tomorrow, how does it feel to have the option of lifting out of level 4 lockdown? Many, many countries around the world couldn’t even fathom that, at the point they’re at. PM: I think that’s a really good point. I often reflect, when I sit and talk with the director-general about an individual case, or when I talk about an individual person in hospital care, that we are still, despite battling COVID-19 ourselves, in a very privileged position to be able to talk about individuals, when I look overseas and see that some places, they are tracking thousands a day. And so that does mean that we’re lucky, but we’re lucky because every New Zealander has joined us in a mission to get rid of COVID19 in New Zealand. Media: Did you think we’d be in this position when you announced the lockdown 30 days ago? PM: You’ll remember that at the time, someone asked me whether or not I was afraid, and my answer to that was no because we have a plan. But what everyone has proven is that we’ve been able to fulfil that plan because we’ve been in it together. And so I did think it was possible, and New Zealanders proved it. Media: Will this be a more difficult decision than the one you made to go into level 4? PM: I think every decision here has been difficult, not only because we’re dealing with a virus that keeps teaching us new things but also because we, in some ways, are doing things differently, and so it’s not always possible to look to another country for examples. We are carving our own path here. So some of that does make it difficult, but I have confidence in the data we have, the analysis that we’re providing, and the quality of the people that we’re working with, that we’ll make the right decision. Media: Prime Minister, with Anzac Day this Saturday, I’m just wondering how you’ll be preparing to celebrate the unique type of day and how you [Inaudible] a bit differently this year. PM: Yeah, and we will have to do Anzac Day differently this year. But despite that, I hope that—actually, I hope that we will see even more participate, in their own way, because of it. I do think it will have a different feeling, and many have reflected on the fact that the huge sacrifices that generations before us have made at times when the international community has faced challenges that are, frankly, unprecedented. Our challenge is a different one, but I think it brings home exactly what it is that our forefathers have gone through. I hope that we’ll see that recognition in people’s own commemorations. I’ll provide a little bit more detail next week on what it will mean for me and the Government. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the CHT St Margaret’s cluster—the residents there who were taken to hospital. How many of those residents who were taken to hospital have since tested positive, and how many staff have also tested positive, and why were they taken to two separate hospitals? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: My understanding is there are six residents who are in Waitakere Hospital, and they were all COVID-19 positive, and they were taken there to be cared for there. I don’t think they were in two separate hospitals, but I stand to be corrected on that. And when I last spoke with the chief executive there a day or two ago, there were five staff members who were infected, and the other cases associated with that cluster are community-based—so family members of the staff members. Media: How concerning is the Whanganui case of a person in their 20s with no known links to the region’s other seven cases, and will instances like that play into your decision making on alert levels? PM: As we have talked about in these last two weeks, we have been getting down to analysing individual cases to see what they tell us about potential community transmission, and when we see that, doing follow up to then test whether or not there is anything wider happening within those communities. But what I would say is this demonstrates also the job that our contact tracers have. They have to go in and conduct sometimes forensic interviews to try and ascertain what exactly has happened with a case that is a little bit more difficult to build a picture. But it gives you a sense of exactly what we’ll be weighing up as a Cabinet tomorrow. Media: And one more on shopping centres. The New Zealand Retail Property Group’s saying that there should be a rethink on the opening of the malls during level 3. They say centre managers can safely organise their operations to maintain social distancing. Would you reconsider malls? PM: No. In fact, retail all falls in the same category, whether or not they’re a mall or a retail store on the main street of a small town. We’re asking them to adopt contactless trade, whether that’s online, over-the-phone orders, drive in, or contactless exchanges. Ultimately, we do want commerce to start up again, but we need to reduce down face-to-face contact still at alert level 3 as much as we can. Our hope, though, is to not be there too long. OK. Thank you, everyone. Conclusion of press conference --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference – 19 April
The daily media conferences were held at 1pm and 1:30pm. Speaker at the 1pm conference: Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Speakers at the 1:30pm media conference: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Carmel Sepuloni, Minister for Social Development You can watch both media conferences here. Transcript of the daily media conference 28 April 2020 Transcript of the Post-Cabinet media conference 28 April 2020
Home Updates Transcript of daily media conference 28 April 2020 --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to the update today. Today, we have two new confirmed cases of COVID-19 to report and one new probable case. Two of today’s cases—and those are both the confirmed cases—can be traced to a known source; one is linked to the Marist cluster in Auckland and the other linked to the Gladys Mary rest home in Hawke’s Bay. The probable case, which is from South Canterbury, is currently under investigation. So the new national total of cases, both confirmed and probable, is 1,472. There are no additional deaths to report, and New Zealand’s total number of confirmed cases is 1,124. This is the number we report to the World Health Organization, and, in many instances, this is the number that many countries report as their overall total. Yesterday, there were 2,146 COVID-19 tests processed around the country, bringing the combined total, to date, to 126,066 tests. Again, this lower number of tests reflects the pattern we have seen, for example, over Easter, when there are public holidays. Of our cases, 1,214 are now reported as recovered—that is, they have been symptom-free for at least 48 hours and it is at least 10 days since the onset of their symptoms. That’s an increase of 34 on yesterday, and now 82 percent of our cases are classified as recovered. Today, there are nine people in hospital around the country, and that includes one person in ICU in Middlemore Hospital. And there are still currently 16 significant clusters around the country—that is, clusters of at least 10 or more people. In terms of the cases still under investigation, since 1 April we have just those two cases. I mentioned one yesterday; this is the case in Tauranga, for which there is a possible link that is still being investigated. And the other one is the one I’ve just announced from South Canterbury today—it’s a probable case. Just a word on elimination: I want to restate the comments I made yesterday about elimination, which may have caused some confusion about what this means in alert level 3. First of all, a reminder that we still will see cases of COVID-19 under an elimination goal. That just means that it is not completely eradicated, and you’ll have heard Professor Sir David Skegg talk about the difference between elimination and eradication several weeks ago at the first meeting of the Epidemic Response Committee. To date, we have, of course, been considering elimination under alert level 4, and, as I said yesterday, we have achieved what we set out to achieve under alert level 3. That means we know we have a small number of cases and we know where those cases are coming from; we have the ability to undertake ongoing and extensive testing; and we can contact trace a significant number of cases each day. However, as you will have heard today, we still do have cases ongoing of COVID-19 and we have seen, from overseas experience, how quickly those numbers can rise again if we take our foot off the pedal. We have made good progress to arrive at level 3, but we are by no means in the clear. Elimination is not a point in time; it is a sustained effort to keep it out and stamp it out over many months. It is crucial that all New Zealanders remain vigilant and follow the guidelines for level 3, including physical distancing. And, yes, like many people returning to work or back at work today, I have enjoyed a takeaway coffee; however, it is important not to congregate outside the cafes or other places, or in the carparks of takeaway places like McDonald’s when you see old friends. Please do maintain the physical distancing—that will be imperative in alert level 3. We do not want to see the sorts of rebound that we have seen in other countries. So physical distancing imperative, keep to your bubble, practise good hand hygiene, and if you are unwell—most importantly—stay away from work and from others. Finally, as I outlined yesterday, as Director-General I have issued a new order under the Health Act which lays out the provisions for alert level 3. This came into effect at 11.59 last night when we moved into alert level 3. The information in the order is comprehensive and it outlines the functions around isolation or quarantine requirements; the permissions for essential personnel movement, personal movement, or recreation; infection control measures that are required of all premises; the ability to close non-compliant premises; and also prohibitions on gatherings. The notice is available on the Ministry of Health website under latest updates and also is linked to from the Ministry of Health’s dedicated COVID-19 page. Thank you. I’m happy to take questions. Media : Dr Bloomfield, did you misspeak yesterday when you said that we had achieved our goal of elimination, because now you’ve clarified that to say that elimination is not a point in time? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’ve achieved our goal of elimination as under alert level 4. So we have achieved what we set out to achieve under alert level 4 as part of our overall goal of elimination, but as I said, it remains our goal in alert level 3—and it certainly will in alert level 2—but it is not something that you can just say, “Done and dusted, we’ve got it; we have eliminated.” It’s an ongoing effort. Media : What’s the scientific definition you are using to define elimination? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So again, I think we’re in a situation of COVID-19 that we haven’t experienced before, and I just want to refer back to Professor Sir David Skegg’s definition, which I think is helpful and it is our goal: a small number of cases; a knowledge of where those are coming from; and an ability to and a posture to identify cases early, stamp them out; and, of course, to maintain strict border restrictions so we’re not importing new cases. That’s what underpins the elimination goal. Media : So can you only say at the end of alert level 3 if we’ve been successful in elimination under that alert level? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, I think elimination will continue to be our goal and underpin our approach. In a sense, it’s a single word to describe that ongoing “keep it out, stamp it out” phase, different from what was in the pandemic influenza plan, which talked about moving into a “manage it” phase. We clearly decided we wouldn’t do that, and we have seen what has happened in other countries and jurisdictions where they have—either deliberately by choice or have had that choice taken away, where they have moved into a “manage it” phase. We decided we wouldn’t do that, that we would go for an elimination goal, underpinned by sustained “keep it out, stamp it out”. Media : So at what point would we be slipping out of elimination? So say we’ve achieved our goal of elimination—what would need to happen for us to have slipped out of having achieved that goal? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think the development that every country is looking to is the development of a vaccine and/or an effective treatment or treatments for COVID-19. Then we could look at what the goal might be once we had effective treatments and/or a vaccine, but in the meantime, the goal of elimination will be what will see us through, as New Zealand, to that point. Media : That criteria that you said before that Sir David Skegg said, we are at that stage in all those certain phases, are we not? So is it a matter of keeping it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, and I think that that description applies very aptly to what we have been doing under lockdown, but we will continue to want to remain at a point where we have a low number of cases and where we’re able to identify early through testing and then isolation, contact tracing, and isolation of any contacts. That will be what will help us achieve ongoing, sustained elimination, really, through these next few phases. Media : Are you concerned that New Zealanders will hear you say “Look, we’ve eliminated it.” and breathe a sigh of relief? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, well, then I can just clarify: we haven’t eliminated it and we haven’t eradicated it. So elimination, as I say, is not a point in time. It’s not, “We’ve got to the end of alert level 4; we’ve eliminated it.” Our elimination goal continues into alert level 3, and as I’ve said quite clearly over the last couple of weeks, to maintain that, we need to be even more vigilant, because we don’t have the full protections that a lockdown brings with it. Media : So when you were talking yesterday, you were talking just specifically about level 4? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Alert level 4, yes. And this was one of the key pieces of information behind the decision to move out of alert level 4, was, yes, we have achieved what we set out to achieve under alert level 4: a low number of cases, an in-depth knowledge of where they are coming from, control of any clusters or outbreaks, very good testing capacity and widespread testing under way, and also that ability to contact trace. Media : In her report on contact tracing, Dr Verrall identified a number of sort of key performance indicators, including three of critical priority. Has the Ministry of Health achieved those three critical KPIs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we are well on the way. And again, it’s not just the Ministry of Health, because the fundamental workforce that does the contact tracing is out in our public health units, and if you’ll recall her first recommendation about capacity and capability in public health units. When we started to get cases in New Zealand, we canvased our public health units, and their capacity at that time was around 50 cases that they felt, between them, they could contact trace. That’s now up to 185 with the investment that’s happened, and with the further investment we’re increasing that up to 300. So that’s the fundamental capacity we will need. And then we’ve got, of course, our National Close Contact Service that supplements that with the ability to contact up to another 10,000 phone calls each day. In terms of those indicators, I think the critical one is the one around the timeliness of contacting people who are identified as close contacts. And one of the challenges here has been collating data which has been manually collected locally by public health units. We have just got what I think is a good picture of that, with data from the public health units for the period from 13 to 17 April, and that showed that they were contacting and tracing 80 percent of close contacts within 48 hours, actually. And the benchmark there is within 72 hours getting 80 percent. Now, of course, what we want to be able to do is to continue that, and, even if there is an increase in cases, to maintain that achieving 80 percent within the two days. Media: Now that we switch our attention to going down to level 2 and what we have to do, if we keep tracking with these single digit number of cases, what else do we have to do until you’re comfortable for us to flick into level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it’s again the number of cases and, of course, the knowledge that where they’re coming from. The other thing will be to maintain early testing of people who are symptomatic, and this, again, is a really important point for people who do have any respiratory symptoms to seek advice early. And those include more severe symptoms like fever and cough, but also sneezing and sore throat, and this particular symptom that’s now become quite well documented of a loss of smell or taste, which not only seems to be a symptom that people have when they might be developing the illness but also can continue for some time. So if people have those symptoms, early testing is critical, and then supplementing that with our ongoing wider testing as part of our surveillance, including of critical workforces like essential workers in healthcare settings and in non-healthcare settings. Media: A loss of smell and taste, is that now one of the official symptoms, because I— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. Yes, it’s in our case definition now. Media: A Hamilton man has talked to Stuff about—he went to a CBAC 12 days ago and is yet to receive a test result. Is that kind of delay happening around the country and is that acceptable? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, it’s not happening around the country, and it surprises me that someone has had to wait 12 days, so I’m very happy to look into that and just check. What I can say is that every positive test, the person is contacted immediately by the public health unit, and it may take longer for people to receive confirmation that their test was negative. But also, of course, our positive tests are announced each day here as part of this stand up. But it shouldn’t be taking 12 days. It shouldn’t be taking more than a few days for anyone who gets a test to get that result back, so we’ll follow that up. Media: Based on what you’ve seen today when you’ve gone out for your coffee and what you’ve heard from people, is the level of activity that you’re seeing today in level 3 what you would hope for, or have people already got a bit loose? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, what I was seeing was fine, but I have had reported to me that, and hence the message—you know, there will be a temptation if you see your friends, you haven’t seen them for a few weeks, whether you’re congregating for a coffee or takeaways, to just want to catch up, and the physical distancing thing remains very important. I just want to reiterate that message to people. We’ve got used to doing it during alert level 4, and it’s imperative to maintain it through alert level 3. Media: When were taste and smell added to the official symptoms of COVID-19 in New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, I think the last change to the case definition officially was 16 April, and I’m pretty sure it’s in that, so I’m happy to confirm that but we’ve certainly added it as a very distinctive symptom and it’s one that all the CBACs are now aware of. Media : Dr Bloomfield, you mentioned last week, you talked about ramping up testing in rural areas. I believe you said Te Tai Tokerau, Tai Rāwhiti, Taranaki among others, with a particular focus on Māori and Pasifika. How has that testing gone and are you pleased with the testing rates among Māori and Pasifika? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, we’ve seen ongoing high testing rates amongst Māori and Pasifika, which is good, and the feedback I’ve had is that that testing’s gone well out in Tai Rāwhiti, Te Tai Tokerau, and Taranaki, and we will be continuing that as appropriate. We haven’t seen any positive results or tests come through from that testing, which is, I think, reassuring both for us and, of course, for those communities. Media : Dr Bloomfield, is the information on the Ministry of Health’s website about the extent of community transmission misleading, and, if not, why is the ministry not saying it’s community transmission when someone gets the virus locally from a cluster or case when the origin of that case or cluster is unknown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : OK, so there’s quite a bit in that question. So I don’t think the information is misleading. What we have moved to over the last few days, rather than broadly talking about community transmission, is just to be more specific about the origin of cases, and in some cases it will be from community transmission but related to a known case or cluster, even if we don’t know where that case or cluster came from originally. In other cases, in a small number we are not able to make that link. Most of those, aside from two, are pre - 1 April, so four weeks ago now, and so they will be the ones that are contributing to the overall percentage that are community transmission. What we’re critically interested in now is being able to trace where our recent and emerging cases come from and being able to link those to existing cases. Media : What advice have you received about these larger blood vessel clots and strokes that younger people appear to be having who have had COVID-19? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I haven’t received any advice, but what I can say is we’re keeping a really close eye on any emerging reports around clinical presentations that have been—this is one—in the last week, these reports around vascular and blood changes. There’s also an emerging report from the UK just today around the possibility of a—there’s only a small number of children with Kawasaki disease and some of these have been COVID-19 positive, others haven’t. Again, a small number. So these are the sorts of things we are looking at on a daily basis just to see, is this something we need to advise our clinicians about, to look for. So what does seem to be clear is that this infection, even though it’s a respiratory infection, does affect other organ systems and, as we learn more about it, that will inform both how we manage people, and then, of course, also it will identify groups that might be a high risk that we need to act on. Media : And does it serve as a reminder as well for younger people, because I think those strokes have all occurred in people who are under 50 years old, that isn’t just a virus that disproportionately hurts older people or people with underlying health conditions? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Quite. It’s not just confined to those groups, and we’ve seen in New Zealand our biggest groups, in terms of age groups that have been infected, largely reflecting people coming back from overseas in the nature of some of our clusters. The biggest groups have been 20- to 40-year-olds. They’re not as susceptible to the poor outcomes, but it doesn’t mean that they don’t get those, and we’ve seen overseas where you have high numbers of cases, you do see some of these people get very unwell and some of them die. And even in the UK in that report around Kawasaki disease I was reading today, they have had a small number of deaths in under-20-year-olds related to COVID-19. It is not an innocuous infection in any age group. Media : What have the testing results been for the residents of a Hawke’s Bay holiday park where a resident tested positive for COVID? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I was really pleased to see the public health unit yesterday has offered testing to all those people at that holiday park. I don’t have the results of those yet. We certainly haven’t seen any positive tests come through in the reports today. I’m assuming that most of those will be done today and processed today and we’ll be able to report back on that. Media : And are you able to confirm that that was at the Affordable Westshore Holiday Park in Napier? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t know which holiday park it was, actually. Media : Hutt Valley and CCDHB have had to ditch 100,000 face masks from emergency reserves. How disappointing is that, and what does it say about the inspection processes of our PPE stock? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think it does provide a lesson that—and I know that most DHBs do have a rotation policy, and we do that for all our pandemic supplies; including the supplies we have of Tamiflu, which are rotated out. And we have also pandemic supplies of things like Paracetamol; they’re rotated out to maintain the levels. I think there is a lesson there. What I can say is we have 29 million masks in the country, both N95 and the standard mask in the country, so disappointed that those ones had to be written off, but we do have both good stocks and good supply chain of masks. Media : Dr Bloomfield, as a health professional noting New Zealand’s obesity rates, how did you feel about the flooding of Kiwis to takeaway food outlets today? Is there a public health message you’d like to put out there, or is that a bit rich? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think—yeah, I don’t want to be preachy on this—I was pretty keen to get a takeaway coffee, and I think people are enjoying the opportunity. So I’m not going to pass any judgment on that. One more observation I will make though—and I think others have made this—there’s been a lot of people out being physically active during alert level 4, walking, cycling, and I think we will all be feeling all the better for that. And I’d encourage everybody to actually—in alert level 3, and even as we move down alert levels—maintain that regular, physical activity. We know it’s beneficial for health, whatever age you are, and even if you have pre-existing conditions, physical activity is of great benefit, so I’d just be encouraging people to maintain that. Media : Just a question about extending bubbles. If you’re extending your bubble to an older family member, can you actually hug them when you enter their home, or do you still need to keep your distance from them once you’re inside? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Theoretically, if someone’s within your bubble, you are allowed to hug them, and that may be one of the benefits of extending your bubble. But, of course, you do want to be thoughtful about that, and, of course, if you’ve got any symptoms of a cold—not only don’t hug them but don’t see them. Media : Dr Bloomfield, have you got any sense of overall mortality rates over March and April? There’s some studies of overseas hotspots for COVID where overall mortality spiked a lot more than the actual reported cases. I’m not saying it necessarily happened in New Zealand, but have you looked into whether overall mortality is any higher in March and April than it was, say, last year? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We haven’t looked yet, but that’s something we will want to look at—all causes of mortality during the period—because we also know some people have delayed seeking care. And we will want to make sure that there weren’t excess deaths related to delays in seeking care. If you look at those countries—and I think the Netherlands is an example, I think the US is maybe another one—where, actually, their mortality rates have been quite a lot higher, even than the additional COVID-19 deaths, I think this reflects that their testing was not identifying all the cases out there, and there were many community-based deaths as a result of COVID-19. What we’ve, of course, been in the position in New Zealand—we’re confident we’ve been able to identify the vast majority of our cases. So our death rate is on a par with countries like Australia and others that have got high testing rates—so somewhere between 1 and 2 percent. Whereas what you’ll see in, say, the US, the death rate is much higher, even approaching about 10 percent of total cases. Media : So are you quite concerned about people maybe delaying care and dying because of that—maybe not going in when they should, having a heart attack or something similar? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : You’ll have heard us through alert level 4 repeatedly encouraging people to seek care in a timely way and avoid—especially if it’s something like chest pain or symptoms that really do require them to get urgent care, that they should not delay. And that continues into level 3—that people should seek the care they need, whether it’s acute or for more longstanding chronic conditions. And we will be looking back at all causes of mortality just to see what the impact was of COVID-19, including whether there were any increased deaths from infectious causes. However, I could also say that we’ve been quite inclusive in terms of our deaths that we have classified as COVID-19—including a number of probable cases, even where the testing was negative but we felt it was likely to be the case. Media : Have you considered any wider antibody tests—of the kind that they’ve done in New York—to get a more fuller picture of the prevalence of COVID in New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It’s one of the things we’re considering further down the track as part of surveillance. It will depend on there being a reliable antibody test—I think there are still some questions around the reliability and usefulness of antibody testing, particularly in a situation like New Zealand, where we’ve had such a low number of cases. Of more value—and I think you’ll see the States—I think New York’s done an antibody test of a sample of New Yorkers and found they thought around 10 percent of the population has probably been infected. It’s of more value there, whereas here we’ve got such small numbers, and if the test is not that reliable, it’s unlikely to provide any useful information until we get, I think, really much reliable antibody tests. Media : Do you have any comment on Auckland University Rod Jackson’s analysis that there might be undetected cases equivalent to the amount of active cases we currently have? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think we’ve always understood that there would be other cases out there that we might not detect. I’m not sure if it’s an equivalent number to the ones we have found, but the key point and the key benefit of the lockdown has been that even if those cases were out there, they’ve clearly not transmitted on to others, because people have been staying within their bubbles, or the majority of people have. But this will be one of the things we will really want to be very careful about as we go into alert level 3 and further on to alert level 2, and hence maintaining that wide testing, case-finding and testing of certain populations, to identify whether there is any COVID-19 still out there. Maybe a final question there. Media : Yeah, this morning during the select committee looking at the impact on small to medium businesses, we heard from a business owner in Auckland who runs a shopping mall, and she was saying “Look at these tiny numbers of positive cases you’re getting each day.” Today, it’s three. You know, we’ve had five, eight. She was saying, look, she feels that we’ve beaten this thing, and she thinks it’s madness that, you know, malls like hers have to remain closed at level 3. What would be your response to that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I can understand that perspective, and I think, for all New Zealanders, we look and I think we should feel proud of the efforts we’ve made to get down to this small number of cases. However, to repeat a comment I’ve made here before, it’s quite clear this is a tricky virus, and as we learn more about pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic transmission, that makes it all the more important we maintain the approach we are maintaining. I’d also point to countries—in particular, ones like Singapore—that also had very small numbers of cases and then saw a big increase, and now finds itself in a very different situation. We don’t want to be in that situation, and we want to make sure that we get the full benefits of the sacrifices we have all made under the lockdown alert level 4. So that would be my response there. Media : Just very quickly, Dr Bloomfield, yesterday we achieved our goal of elimination; today, we haven’t eliminated. Have we eliminated the virus or not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Let’s be clear, and I’ll just repeat the comment: elimination is not a point in time. Yesterday I was referring to alert level 4. We had achieved what we set out to achieve in terms of our overall goal of elimination under alert level 4. This is going to be a prolonged effort. It’s going to be a sustained effort, and we will all need to continue that effort in alert level 3 and on to alert level 2. Thanks. Media : Sorry, just on that, internationally a lot of people have praised us, you know, with that headline. Would you like to correct some of those? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Correct the international headlines? Media : Yeah. They’ve sort of said—I mean, not that either of us have the power to do that, but they’ve said that New Zealand’s eliminated it. Do you want to correct that information? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think we’ve been clear here about what we mean by elimination, and it’s not eradication. We haven’t eradicated the virus, but we have achieved what we wanted to achieve in our ongoing goal of elimination. Media : Do you recognise that, you know, it’s as clear as mud, really, isn’t it? Because the Prime Minister’s been talking the whole time about how we’re going to be one of the few countries in the world, or we hope to be, that can actually eliminate this virus. Yesterday, people celebrated because we thought we got there. As Jess says, the New York Times is running big headlines saying New Zealand’s eliminated the virus, and then today you’re standing up there saying, “No, no. That was just under level 4, not level 3.” Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I hope my explanation today has helped to clarify that. If there was mud yesterday, the water is clearer today, and I hope you all have a good understanding of that and that other New Zealanders do. Kia ora koutou. Thanks very much. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to the update today. Today, we have two new confirmed cases of COVID-19 to report and one new probable case. Two of today’s cases—and those are both the confirmed cases—can be traced to a known source; one is linked to the Marist cluster in Auckland and the other linked to the Gladys Mary rest home in Hawke’s Bay. The probable case, which is from South Canterbury, is currently under investigation. So the new national total of cases, both confirmed and probable, is 1,472. There are no additional deaths to report, and New Zealand’s total number of confirmed cases is 1,124. This is the number we report to the World Health Organization, and, in many instances, this is the number that many countries report as their overall total. Yesterday, there were 2,146 COVID-19 tests processed around the country, bringing the combined total, to date, to 126,066 tests. Again, this lower number of tests reflects the pattern we have seen, for example, over Easter, when there are public holidays. Of our cases, 1,214 are now reported as recovered—that is, they have been symptom-free for at least 48 hours and it is at least 10 days since the onset of their symptoms. That’s an increase of 34 on yesterday, and now 82 percent of our cases are classified as recovered. Today, there are nine people in hospital around the country, and that includes one person in ICU in Middlemore Hospital. And there are still currently 16 significant clusters around the country—that is, clusters of at least 10 or more people. In terms of the cases still under investigation, since 1 April we have just those two cases. I mentioned one yesterday; this is the case in Tauranga, for which there is a possible link that is still being investigated. And the other one is the one I’ve just announced from South Canterbury today—it’s a probable case. Just a word on elimination: I want to restate the comments I made yesterday about elimination, which may have caused some confusion about what this means in alert level 3. First of all, a reminder that we still will see cases of COVID-19 under an elimination goal. That just means that it is not completely eradicated, and you’ll have heard Professor Sir David Skegg talk about the difference between elimination and eradication several weeks ago at the first meeting of the Epidemic Response Committee. To date, we have, of course, been considering elimination under alert level 4, and, as I said yesterday, we have achieved what we set out to achieve under alert level 3. That means we know we have a small number of cases and we know where those cases are coming from; we have the ability to undertake ongoing and extensive testing; and we can contact trace a significant number of cases each day. However, as you will have heard today, we still do have cases ongoing of COVID-19 and we have seen, from overseas experience, how quickly those numbers can rise again if we take our foot off the pedal. We have made good progress to arrive at level 3, but we are by no means in the clear. Elimination is not a point in time; it is a sustained effort to keep it out and stamp it out over many months. It is crucial that all New Zealanders remain vigilant and follow the guidelines for level 3, including physical distancing. And, yes, like many people returning to work or back at work today, I have enjoyed a takeaway coffee; however, it is important not to congregate outside the cafes or other places, or in the carparks of takeaway places like McDonald’s when you see old friends. Please do maintain the physical distancing—that will be imperative in alert level 3. We do not want to see the sorts of rebound that we have seen in other countries. So physical distancing imperative, keep to your bubble, practise good hand hygiene, and if you are unwell—most importantly—stay away from work and from others. Finally, as I outlined yesterday, as Director-General I have issued a new order under the Health Act which lays out the provisions for alert level 3. This came into effect at 11.59 last night when we moved into alert level 3. The information in the order is comprehensive and it outlines the functions around isolation or quarantine requirements; the permissions for essential personnel movement, personal movement, or recreation; infection control measures that are required of all premises; the ability to close non-compliant premises; and also prohibitions on gatherings. The notice is available on the Ministry of Health website under latest updates and also is linked to from the Ministry of Health’s dedicated COVID-19 page. Thank you. I’m happy to take questions. --- Section Separator --- Media : Dr Bloomfield, did you misspeak yesterday when you said that we had achieved our goal of elimination, because now you’ve clarified that to say that elimination is not a point in time? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’ve achieved our goal of elimination as under alert level 4. So we have achieved what we set out to achieve under alert level 4 as part of our overall goal of elimination, but as I said, it remains our goal in alert level 3—and it certainly will in alert level 2—but it is not something that you can just say, “Done and dusted, we’ve got it; we have eliminated.” It’s an ongoing effort. Media : What’s the scientific definition you are using to define elimination? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So again, I think we’re in a situation of COVID-19 that we haven’t experienced before, and I just want to refer back to Professor Sir David Skegg’s definition, which I think is helpful and it is our goal: a small number of cases; a knowledge of where those are coming from; and an ability to and a posture to identify cases early, stamp them out; and, of course, to maintain strict border restrictions so we’re not importing new cases. That’s what underpins the elimination goal. Media : So can you only say at the end of alert level 3 if we’ve been successful in elimination under that alert level? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, I think elimination will continue to be our goal and underpin our approach. In a sense, it’s a single word to describe that ongoing “keep it out, stamp it out” phase, different from what was in the pandemic influenza plan, which talked about moving into a “manage it” phase. We clearly decided we wouldn’t do that, and we have seen what has happened in other countries and jurisdictions where they have—either deliberately by choice or have had that choice taken away, where they have moved into a “manage it” phase. We decided we wouldn’t do that, that we would go for an elimination goal, underpinned by sustained “keep it out, stamp it out”. Media : So at what point would we be slipping out of elimination? So say we’ve achieved our goal of elimination—what would need to happen for us to have slipped out of having achieved that goal? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think the development that every country is looking to is the development of a vaccine and/or an effective treatment or treatments for COVID-19. Then we could look at what the goal might be once we had effective treatments and/or a vaccine, but in the meantime, the goal of elimination will be what will see us through, as New Zealand, to that point. Media : That criteria that you said before that Sir David Skegg said, we are at that stage in all those certain phases, are we not? So is it a matter of keeping it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, and I think that that description applies very aptly to what we have been doing under lockdown, but we will continue to want to remain at a point where we have a low number of cases and where we’re able to identify early through testing and then isolation, contact tracing, and isolation of any contacts. That will be what will help us achieve ongoing, sustained elimination, really, through these next few phases. Media : Are you concerned that New Zealanders will hear you say “Look, we’ve eliminated it.” and breathe a sigh of relief? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, well, then I can just clarify: we haven’t eliminated it and we haven’t eradicated it. So elimination, as I say, is not a point in time. It’s not, “We’ve got to the end of alert level 4; we’ve eliminated it.” Our elimination goal continues into alert level 3, and as I’ve said quite clearly over the last couple of weeks, to maintain that, we need to be even more vigilant, because we don’t have the full protections that a lockdown brings with it. Media : So when you were talking yesterday, you were talking just specifically about level 4? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Alert level 4, yes. And this was one of the key pieces of information behind the decision to move out of alert level 4, was, yes, we have achieved what we set out to achieve under alert level 4: a low number of cases, an in-depth knowledge of where they are coming from, control of any clusters or outbreaks, very good testing capacity and widespread testing under way, and also that ability to contact trace. Media : In her report on contact tracing, Dr Verrall identified a number of sort of key performance indicators, including three of critical priority. Has the Ministry of Health achieved those three critical KPIs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we are well on the way. And again, it’s not just the Ministry of Health, because the fundamental workforce that does the contact tracing is out in our public health units, and if you’ll recall her first recommendation about capacity and capability in public health units. When we started to get cases in New Zealand, we canvased our public health units, and their capacity at that time was around 50 cases that they felt, between them, they could contact trace. That’s now up to 185 with the investment that’s happened, and with the further investment we’re increasing that up to 300. So that’s the fundamental capacity we will need. And then we’ve got, of course, our National Close Contact Service that supplements that with the ability to contact up to another 10,000 phone calls each day. In terms of those indicators, I think the critical one is the one around the timeliness of contacting people who are identified as close contacts. And one of the challenges here has been collating data which has been manually collected locally by public health units. We have just got what I think is a good picture of that, with data from the public health units for the period from 13 to 17 April, and that showed that they were contacting and tracing 80 percent of close contacts within 48 hours, actually. And the benchmark there is within 72 hours getting 80 percent. Now, of course, what we want to be able to do is to continue that, and, even if there is an increase in cases, to maintain that achieving 80 percent within the two days. Media: Now that we switch our attention to going down to level 2 and what we have to do, if we keep tracking with these single digit number of cases, what else do we have to do until you’re comfortable for us to flick into level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it’s again the number of cases and, of course, the knowledge that where they’re coming from. The other thing will be to maintain early testing of people who are symptomatic, and this, again, is a really important point for people who do have any respiratory symptoms to seek advice early. And those include more severe symptoms like fever and cough, but also sneezing and sore throat, and this particular symptom that’s now become quite well documented of a loss of smell or taste, which not only seems to be a symptom that people have when they might be developing the illness but also can continue for some time. So if people have those symptoms, early testing is critical, and then supplementing that with our ongoing wider testing as part of our surveillance, including of critical workforces like essential workers in healthcare settings and in non-healthcare settings. Media: A loss of smell and taste, is that now one of the official symptoms, because I— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. Yes, it’s in our case definition now. Media: A Hamilton man has talked to Stuff about—he went to a CBAC 12 days ago and is yet to receive a test result. Is that kind of delay happening around the country and is that acceptable? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, it’s not happening around the country, and it surprises me that someone has had to wait 12 days, so I’m very happy to look into that and just check. What I can say is that every positive test, the person is contacted immediately by the public health unit, and it may take longer for people to receive confirmation that their test was negative. But also, of course, our positive tests are announced each day here as part of this stand up. But it shouldn’t be taking 12 days. It shouldn’t be taking more than a few days for anyone who gets a test to get that result back, so we’ll follow that up. Media: Based on what you’ve seen today when you’ve gone out for your coffee and what you’ve heard from people, is the level of activity that you’re seeing today in level 3 what you would hope for, or have people already got a bit loose? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, what I was seeing was fine, but I have had reported to me that, and hence the message—you know, there will be a temptation if you see your friends, you haven’t seen them for a few weeks, whether you’re congregating for a coffee or takeaways, to just want to catch up, and the physical distancing thing remains very important. I just want to reiterate that message to people. We’ve got used to doing it during alert level 4, and it’s imperative to maintain it through alert level 3. Media: When were taste and smell added to the official symptoms of COVID-19 in New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, I think the last change to the case definition officially was 16 April, and I’m pretty sure it’s in that, so I’m happy to confirm that but we’ve certainly added it as a very distinctive symptom and it’s one that all the CBACs are now aware of. Media : Dr Bloomfield, you mentioned last week, you talked about ramping up testing in rural areas. I believe you said Te Tai Tokerau, Tai Rāwhiti, Taranaki among others, with a particular focus on Māori and Pasifika. How has that testing gone and are you pleased with the testing rates among Māori and Pasifika? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, we’ve seen ongoing high testing rates amongst Māori and Pasifika, which is good, and the feedback I’ve had is that that testing’s gone well out in Tai Rāwhiti, Te Tai Tokerau, and Taranaki, and we will be continuing that as appropriate. We haven’t seen any positive results or tests come through from that testing, which is, I think, reassuring both for us and, of course, for those communities. Media : Dr Bloomfield, is the information on the Ministry of Health’s website about the extent of community transmission misleading, and, if not, why is the ministry not saying it’s community transmission when someone gets the virus locally from a cluster or case when the origin of that case or cluster is unknown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : OK, so there’s quite a bit in that question. So I don’t think the information is misleading. What we have moved to over the last few days, rather than broadly talking about community transmission, is just to be more specific about the origin of cases, and in some cases it will be from community transmission but related to a known case or cluster, even if we don’t know where that case or cluster came from originally. In other cases, in a small number we are not able to make that link. Most of those, aside from two, are pre - 1 April, so four weeks ago now, and so they will be the ones that are contributing to the overall percentage that are community transmission. What we’re critically interested in now is being able to trace where our recent and emerging cases come from and being able to link those to existing cases. Media : What advice have you received about these larger blood vessel clots and strokes that younger people appear to be having who have had COVID-19? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I haven’t received any advice, but what I can say is we’re keeping a really close eye on any emerging reports around clinical presentations that have been—this is one—in the last week, these reports around vascular and blood changes. There’s also an emerging report from the UK just today around the possibility of a—there’s only a small number of children with Kawasaki disease and some of these have been COVID-19 positive, others haven’t. Again, a small number. So these are the sorts of things we are looking at on a daily basis just to see, is this something we need to advise our clinicians about, to look for. So what does seem to be clear is that this infection, even though it’s a respiratory infection, does affect other organ systems and, as we learn more about it, that will inform both how we manage people, and then, of course, also it will identify groups that might be a high risk that we need to act on. Media : And does it serve as a reminder as well for younger people, because I think those strokes have all occurred in people who are under 50 years old, that isn’t just a virus that disproportionately hurts older people or people with underlying health conditions? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Quite. It’s not just confined to those groups, and we’ve seen in New Zealand our biggest groups, in terms of age groups that have been infected, largely reflecting people coming back from overseas in the nature of some of our clusters. The biggest groups have been 20- to 40-year-olds. They’re not as susceptible to the poor outcomes, but it doesn’t mean that they don’t get those, and we’ve seen overseas where you have high numbers of cases, you do see some of these people get very unwell and some of them die. And even in the UK in that report around Kawasaki disease I was reading today, they have had a small number of deaths in under-20-year-olds related to COVID-19. It is not an innocuous infection in any age group. Media : What have the testing results been for the residents of a Hawke’s Bay holiday park where a resident tested positive for COVID? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I was really pleased to see the public health unit yesterday has offered testing to all those people at that holiday park. I don’t have the results of those yet. We certainly haven’t seen any positive tests come through in the reports today. I’m assuming that most of those will be done today and processed today and we’ll be able to report back on that. Media : And are you able to confirm that that was at the Affordable Westshore Holiday Park in Napier? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t know which holiday park it was, actually. Media : Hutt Valley and CCDHB have had to ditch 100,000 face masks from emergency reserves. How disappointing is that, and what does it say about the inspection processes of our PPE stock? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think it does provide a lesson that—and I know that most DHBs do have a rotation policy, and we do that for all our pandemic supplies; including the supplies we have of Tamiflu, which are rotated out. And we have also pandemic supplies of things like Paracetamol; they’re rotated out to maintain the levels. I think there is a lesson there. What I can say is we have 29 million masks in the country, both N95 and the standard mask in the country, so disappointed that those ones had to be written off, but we do have both good stocks and good supply chain of masks. Media : Dr Bloomfield, as a health professional noting New Zealand’s obesity rates, how did you feel about the flooding of Kiwis to takeaway food outlets today? Is there a public health message you’d like to put out there, or is that a bit rich? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think—yeah, I don’t want to be preachy on this—I was pretty keen to get a takeaway coffee, and I think people are enjoying the opportunity. So I’m not going to pass any judgment on that. One more observation I will make though—and I think others have made this—there’s been a lot of people out being physically active during alert level 4, walking, cycling, and I think we will all be feeling all the better for that. And I’d encourage everybody to actually—in alert level 3, and even as we move down alert levels—maintain that regular, physical activity. We know it’s beneficial for health, whatever age you are, and even if you have pre-existing conditions, physical activity is of great benefit, so I’d just be encouraging people to maintain that. Media : Just a question about extending bubbles. If you’re extending your bubble to an older family member, can you actually hug them when you enter their home, or do you still need to keep your distance from them once you’re inside? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Theoretically, if someone’s within your bubble, you are allowed to hug them, and that may be one of the benefits of extending your bubble. But, of course, you do want to be thoughtful about that, and, of course, if you’ve got any symptoms of a cold—not only don’t hug them but don’t see them. Media : Dr Bloomfield, have you got any sense of overall mortality rates over March and April? There’s some studies of overseas hotspots for COVID where overall mortality spiked a lot more than the actual reported cases. I’m not saying it necessarily happened in New Zealand, but have you looked into whether overall mortality is any higher in March and April than it was, say, last year? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We haven’t looked yet, but that’s something we will want to look at—all causes of mortality during the period—because we also know some people have delayed seeking care. And we will want to make sure that there weren’t excess deaths related to delays in seeking care. If you look at those countries—and I think the Netherlands is an example, I think the US is maybe another one—where, actually, their mortality rates have been quite a lot higher, even than the additional COVID-19 deaths, I think this reflects that their testing was not identifying all the cases out there, and there were many community-based deaths as a result of COVID-19. What we’ve, of course, been in the position in New Zealand—we’re confident we’ve been able to identify the vast majority of our cases. So our death rate is on a par with countries like Australia and others that have got high testing rates—so somewhere between 1 and 2 percent. Whereas what you’ll see in, say, the US, the death rate is much higher, even approaching about 10 percent of total cases. Media : So are you quite concerned about people maybe delaying care and dying because of that—maybe not going in when they should, having a heart attack or something similar? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : You’ll have heard us through alert level 4 repeatedly encouraging people to seek care in a timely way and avoid—especially if it’s something like chest pain or symptoms that really do require them to get urgent care, that they should not delay. And that continues into level 3—that people should seek the care they need, whether it’s acute or for more longstanding chronic conditions. And we will be looking back at all causes of mortality just to see what the impact was of COVID-19, including whether there were any increased deaths from infectious causes. However, I could also say that we’ve been quite inclusive in terms of our deaths that we have classified as COVID-19—including a number of probable cases, even where the testing was negative but we felt it was likely to be the case. Media : Have you considered any wider antibody tests—of the kind that they’ve done in New York—to get a more fuller picture of the prevalence of COVID in New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It’s one of the things we’re considering further down the track as part of surveillance. It will depend on there being a reliable antibody test—I think there are still some questions around the reliability and usefulness of antibody testing, particularly in a situation like New Zealand, where we’ve had such a low number of cases. Of more value—and I think you’ll see the States—I think New York’s done an antibody test of a sample of New Yorkers and found they thought around 10 percent of the population has probably been infected. It’s of more value there, whereas here we’ve got such small numbers, and if the test is not that reliable, it’s unlikely to provide any useful information until we get, I think, really much reliable antibody tests. Media : Do you have any comment on Auckland University Rod Jackson’s analysis that there might be undetected cases equivalent to the amount of active cases we currently have? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think we’ve always understood that there would be other cases out there that we might not detect. I’m not sure if it’s an equivalent number to the ones we have found, but the key point and the key benefit of the lockdown has been that even if those cases were out there, they’ve clearly not transmitted on to others, because people have been staying within their bubbles, or the majority of people have. But this will be one of the things we will really want to be very careful about as we go into alert level 3 and further on to alert level 2, and hence maintaining that wide testing, case-finding and testing of certain populations, to identify whether there is any COVID-19 still out there. Maybe a final question there. Media : Yeah, this morning during the select committee looking at the impact on small to medium businesses, we heard from a business owner in Auckland who runs a shopping mall, and she was saying “Look at these tiny numbers of positive cases you’re getting each day.” Today, it’s three. You know, we’ve had five, eight. She was saying, look, she feels that we’ve beaten this thing, and she thinks it’s madness that, you know, malls like hers have to remain closed at level 3. What would be your response to that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I can understand that perspective, and I think, for all New Zealanders, we look and I think we should feel proud of the efforts we’ve made to get down to this small number of cases. However, to repeat a comment I’ve made here before, it’s quite clear this is a tricky virus, and as we learn more about pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic transmission, that makes it all the more important we maintain the approach we are maintaining. I’d also point to countries—in particular, ones like Singapore—that also had very small numbers of cases and then saw a big increase, and now finds itself in a very different situation. We don’t want to be in that situation, and we want to make sure that we get the full benefits of the sacrifices we have all made under the lockdown alert level 4. So that would be my response there. Media : Just very quickly, Dr Bloomfield, yesterday we achieved our goal of elimination; today, we haven’t eliminated. Have we eliminated the virus or not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Let’s be clear, and I’ll just repeat the comment: elimination is not a point in time. Yesterday I was referring to alert level 4. We had achieved what we set out to achieve in terms of our overall goal of elimination under alert level 4. This is going to be a prolonged effort. It’s going to be a sustained effort, and we will all need to continue that effort in alert level 3 and on to alert level 2. Thanks. Media : Sorry, just on that, internationally a lot of people have praised us, you know, with that headline. Would you like to correct some of those? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Correct the international headlines? Media : Yeah. They’ve sort of said—I mean, not that either of us have the power to do that, but they’ve said that New Zealand’s eliminated it. Do you want to correct that information? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think we’ve been clear here about what we mean by elimination, and it’s not eradication. We haven’t eradicated the virus, but we have achieved what we wanted to achieve in our ongoing goal of elimination. Media : Do you recognise that, you know, it’s as clear as mud, really, isn’t it? Because the Prime Minister’s been talking the whole time about how we’re going to be one of the few countries in the world, or we hope to be, that can actually eliminate this virus. Yesterday, people celebrated because we thought we got there. As Jess says, the New York Times is running big headlines saying New Zealand’s eliminated the virus, and then today you’re standing up there saying, “No, no. That was just under level 4, not level 3.” Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I hope my explanation today has helped to clarify that. If there was mud yesterday, the water is clearer today, and I hope you all have a good understanding of that and that other New Zealanders do. Kia ora koutou. Thanks very much. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily media conference 28 April 2020 Transcript of the Post-Cabinet media conference 28 April 2020
Home Updates Transcript of the Post-Cabinet media conference 28 April 2020 --- Section Separator --- PM : Kia ora koutou katoa, good afternoon. Welcome everyone to day one of alert level 3. I want to begin by stressing that at alert level 3 we are not out of the woods. As I have said before, it is a recovery room, of sorts, to assess if the incredible work that New Zealanders have done at level 4 to break the virus’s chain of transmission and prevent further community outbreak has worked. As Siouxsie Wiles said today, “There may still be some smouldering ashes out there. And they have the potential to become a wildfire again if we give them the chance. It can take from two to 10 days for people who are exposed to the COVID-19 coronavirus to come down with symptoms. That means we wouldn’t smell the smoke for a few weeks. And that could put us back where we started before the lockdown.” So with more people going back to work today, we need to be even more vigilant at level 3 to prevent any inadvertent spreading of the virus. We must continue to stay home where possible, including for work and education. Please stay regional and limit non-essential travel, and even though you can expand your bubble, keep it as small as possible, and exclusive. And finally, if you’re sick, stay home and contact your GP or Healthline and get tested. It may feel like a minor symptom to you, but it could be a significant issue for all of us. What level 3 does represent, however, is the move towards getting our economy moving again, to getting more New Zealanders back to work, and to opening more of our businesses. Businesses restarting at level 3 will see around 400,000 more New Zealanders back at work, taking the total to around 1 million Kiwis working. At level 3, around 75 percent of the economy is operating, with key sectors like building and construction, forestry, manufacturing, and contactless retail starting back up. Importantly, major infrastructure projects start up again today. Over a thousand road and rail construction workers are back working on major projects like Transmission Gully and the CRL in Auckland. However, we also know that the lockdown has displaced many workers, and there is real need for jobs in our community. The Government—we will do all we can to ensure we fight the economic impacts of the virus in the same way we did the health threat, with unity, with fast support, by looking after one another. I’m joined here today by Minister for Social Development, Carmel Sepuloni, who will have more to say on further measures we have put in place to support workers and businesses, including an online job platform to keep workers and companies connected, extra employment centres, and agreement with industry on providing rapid micro-credentials for people needing to retrain. I’ll hand over to Minister Sepuloni. Hon Carmel Sepuloni : Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Over the last few weeks, we have paid out $10.46 billion worth of wage subsidies to keep 1,694,281 New Zealanders in work and connected to their employers. It’s been a huge task to implement, but also a satisfying one. The feedback from employers and employees has been overwhelmingly positive but we still have work to do. As a Government, we need to continue to be responsive to the evolving situation in response to the impacts of COVID-19. We know that a big part of keeping people connected is about keeping New Zealand working. Even before lockdown, our Government had developed and launched our employment strategy in August of last year—and I acknowledge our Minister of Employment, Willie Jackson, for his leadership on that important work—and part of our welfare overhaul was seeing MSD ramping up employment-related focus. Last year we boosted MSD’s work-focused case managers by 263 and invested significantly in programmes that support both employment and upskilling and training, like Mana in Mahi. Before New Zealanders went into alert level 4, the Government worked quickly to stand up rapid-response teams from MSD across the country to work in regions immediately affected, regions like Tai Rāwhiti. These teams have been helping to connect people out of work up with employers in some of our most hard-hit sectors. Under alert level 4, MSD continued to place people into work over the phone, including supporting the redeployment of people to essential services. This work has made a difference for many New Zealanders, and we’re still poised to respond in earnest. As a result of the impacts of COVID-19, unemployment will rise before it improves. We need to continue to act quickly to keep New Zealand working. That’s why we’re announcing today a suite of Keep New Zealand Working employment service initiatives to support those who may be out of work or at risk of losing their job. These will be delivered through MSD so that we can effectively engage with more New Zealanders in this unprecedented time. The Keep New Zealand Working online job platform is now live. It connects job seekers—any job seeker—directly to the employer, making it quicker and easier for people to find work. It also provides training courses for those looking to upskill. You can access it via the Work and Income site. We will also have 35 new employment centres across the country. Through these employment centres, MSD staff will work with employers and job seekers under level 3 over the phone and online to match up employment opportunities. This will expand to face-to-face engagements with clients and employers and providers under level 2. We are implementing other services, which will fast track those people that need to re-engage quickly with the job market and a specific service for those directly impacted by COVID-19 who are not on main benefit. These initiatives are key to supporting New Zealanders during a time when rising unemployment due to COVID-19 is a global phenomenon. We’re already seeing dramatic increases in unemployment in countries around the world like Australia and the UK, and New Zealand has not escaped this reality. Finally, I’d like to say we administered the wage subsidy for 1.6 million workers successfully over four weeks of lockdown by working hard and being adaptable. We will deliver our employment efforts with the same dedication and resilience to keep New Zealand working. PM : All right, thank you, Minister. We’re happy to take questions. Media : Prime Minister, do you stand by your statement yesterday that we’ve won the battle when it comes to contact tracing? PM : You’ll remember, of course, the Director-General pointed to his view that we have reached a gold standard, but I continue to place the caveat on that that when it comes to contact tracing, we’ve managed to do that in an environment with a low number of cases and whilst we’ve been in lockdown. The key for us will be, as we ease those restrictions, maintaining that level, but also, for that, I call upon all New Zealanders to help us. If you have symptoms, get a test, because the clock starts running and counting down as soon as you feel sick. Media : And so you maintain that we’ve won the battle against community transmission? PM : On community—but it is an ongoing battle. There is not one point in time that this mission ends now. Yes, we have done that in lockdown. The goal now is to keep up that work. So we’re now in the next phase of the battle, and we are not done—I don’t think anyone will dispute that I have said that continuously, and you have all benefited from hearing that ad nauseam. Media : Is there a magic number of cases that you would keep us in level 3? What’s the number of cases that would count as that wildfire that you talk about? PM : Yeah, you’ll recall that, actually, I pointed to a scenario in Taiwan, for instance, where they’ve managed to get down to very low numbers of cases—sometimes zero—but in recent days they’ve had the return of a navy ship that has brought their caseload up. So it very much depends on the circumstances. But, again, I also rely on the advice and information by our epidemiologists and by the Director-General as to whether or not we’re in the position to move to a lower alert level. Media : We heard from small businesses at the select committee this morning saying that they’re really struggling and, with only a handful of cases, why are we still in all these restrictions under level 3? Especially with people like MPs and Ministers coming back to work, can you justify to them why they can’t? PM : Yes. And look, with caution. And this is where I really cannot emphasise enough: no one wants a second wave in New Zealand, and we must guard against that. So we are moving cautiously down through the alert levels so that we don’t have to go backwards. That would be terrible for New Zealanders’ health, but also the economy. So it is about moving with certainty in the hope that we don’t go backwards. The next point I would make, in terms of why is it that some workplaces are going back and others are not. We have placed special requirements at alert level around things like retail or where you have high degrees of contact with large numbers of people. In this room right now, we know everyone who is in this room. And in workplaces, we are able to manage, then, who people are having contact with—much harder in hospitality, in retail, where you have larger numbers coming together and often in close contact. Media : In terms of timing, will you give people warning? PM : Yes. Media : I know 11 May is when you will decide, but how much warning will you give people? PM : Well, look, as a general guide, I’ve never come down here—and have no intention of coming down here—and dramatically lifting alert levels in one announcement, without there being a timeline for the way that that will be implemented. Of course, you will have seen to date that, often, we’ve given a period of notice—whether it’s been 48 hours, or others. That’s always been so people can plan and prepare, and so that we can do it in a really confident and controlled manner. And I think, by-and-large, that’s been an accepted approach. Media : Could the Government have done a better job in communicating what elimination is? Because yesterday Dr Ashley Bloomfield said that we can achieve the goal of elimination—obviously what he was referring to is achieving the goal of elimination, or the goals of elimination—under level 4. Can you understand why people are very confused? PM : You will have heard—and this something, just, a simple matter of the fact that we are all now entering into the world of epidemiologists. And they know well what each of these terms mean in a health sense, but of course, in an everyday sense they mean often something different. You’ll have heard me continually say elimination does not mean zero cases. It will mean an ongoing campaign and zero tolerance for cases. We will have to keep stamping COVID out until there is a vaccine. We are not done, but you can see that we have managed, successfully, under lockdown, to end community transmission. We need to keep doing that as we go. Media : Last week Phil Twyford told attendees at a conference that any move by councils to trim rates will impact the Government’s ability, or willingness, to invest in partnerships in infrastructure. Is that the Government’s policy? PM : Look, what we do know is that, in the same way that there will be an impact on revenue on Government, there will likewise be with council. But actually, what we need to ensure is that we have a joined-up approach for acknowledging that there is actually, now, more than ever, the need to invest in infrastructure for the stimulus that will be providing; whilst also having an eye to the day-to-day impact of costs, in all forms, to households when many people are suffering the economic impacts of COVID. So those are the two competing interests that central government and local government will need to work on together. I’m confident we can. Media : Schools and ECEs open tomorrow—what proportion are ready to open? How many children are they expecting? And have some teachers already been asked to help out other schools because of demand? PM : I haven’t had that report from the Ministry of Education, but certainly what I am getting—the initial feedback I’ve had—is that the numbers that are returning are very low. Again, I want to wait for the official word from the Ministry of Education, but initial signs are that we’re expecting a very, very small number to return to schools. That’s as it should be. We are still asking people to stay home and work from home and learn from home if they can. And I think you will see tomorrow that that will show up in the low number of people back in ECEs and in schools. Media : Prime Minister, Māori around the country have been putting rāhui on rivers in a continued effort to keep communities safe, for example, there’s a rāhui on the Waikato and Waipā rivers. The local iwi of Waitahanui near Taupō have put a rāhui on their river and it’s stopping licenced anglers from fishing there. Those anglers are upset, they say they have every right to fish at level 3—who’s in the right here? PM : Well, we have not removed people’s rights at level 3 around accessing shore-based fishing, and so that has been the decision that we’ve made within the alert level framework. Look, what we have continued to do is, when local iwi have had concerns in their own areas, we’ve often been able to that through. So there I would ask iwi to work alongside DOC, those administering the licencing, and police, to make sure that we’re not impeding what are legal access rights, and that we have given permission for. Media : So in this case, local DOC has shown some support from the iwi perspective, so if those things are put in place, you’re happy for iwi to intervene in that way? PM : Again, we have made a decision nationally, and it is my job to make sure consistency there. We’ve said that we haven’t wanted access to DOC land for hunters, but there will be some crossover where accessing some of these areas will require DOC land access—so some complexity that I’d be keen for us to work through with iwi, and with DOC. Media : Prime Minister, we heard from small business owners this morning on the committee that in terms of make or break for their survival it’s going to come down to those commercial rents. Some are not doing anything to help; some who are deferring are still expecting a full payment in coming weeks. What more, if anything, can actually be done to help them? PM : Yeah, and this is where we really did look into what we were able to provide here, and there are limitations on how far we could go, as Government, when it came to commercial leases. But what I would, again, point out is in the best interests of not just the New Zealand economy or, indeed, small business, but those commercial landlords, in this particular environment, not coming to an arrangement that’s workable for you and your tenant, you may find yourself with a vacant property at a time that will be very, very difficult to lease. So here we just are encouraging that dialogue. Media : It is clear, though, that that message is not getting through. I mean the Chamber of Commerce wouldn’t have been saying this morning that it hasn’t worked if it had. So that’s not getting through. So, what— PM : And in the same hearing we had another commercial landlord who very much disputed that it wasn’t happening. Again, I will keep continually reminding people, first and foremost, make sure you make the most of the tax provisions that we’ve put up to help with cash flow issues. Make sure you use the wage subsidy. Talk to your bank and talk to your landlord. In the meantime, as a Government, we will keep looking and assessing what we can do to keep those businesses operating and keep people employed. Media : Even at level 2, with hard borders, tourism businesses, or those exposed to international tourism, are not going to be able to trade. PM : Yeah. Media : Is there are a case for a special deal there? Is that an area you’re looking at specifically? PM : We’ve always said we want to keep monitoring the impact on different sectors, and I’d say tourism would be a very obvious one. Those who work in the space of large events, let’s not forget they were amongst the first to be affected and the last who are likely to be able to operate again. So there are specific areas where we are working on what additional support, redeployment, or initiatives from Government can support the ongoing employment of those people who have previously been in that sector. I’ll just take a couple more. Media : Will the wage subsidy be extended out from 12 weeks for those sectors that are really hard hit and aren’t going to back to normal in the next five weeks? PM : And that’s where potentially you start looking at more specific and specially designed initiatives that will address the needs of what are a very particular set of businesses. Keeping in mind that the wage subsidy: here we are after five weeks in, with a 12-week subsidy still in place. And so for us, it’s actually looking at whether or not there are more specific initiatives that should be designed. Media : You’ve said previously that you can’t freeze commercial rents; there’s no legislative mechanism for you to do that. But now that the House is sitting again, have you considered any sort of emergency legislation? PM : No, because it was not over the availability of the House but the provisions under the legislation, which did not provide us the same provisions under the Residential Tenancies Act. Media : Sure, but you’re not looking at any legislative change to enable that? PM : You’ll remember what we are looking at, and, of course, this requires the House, is arrears and the ability to terminate. So where we had the ability to make changes, we are. Media : A lot of the small businesses are asking for direct cash grants for cash payments from the Government for rent relief specifically. Would you consider those or interest-free loans? PM : Again, what we’ve said all the way through is we are continuing to look at the impact COVID-19 is having, particularly on our small businesses, to see what more the Government can do to assist. Not everyone is going to make it, but we do want to make sure that those businesses that are vulnerable but viable are supported as best we can. Media : But they’re saying it’s an immediate need, so how quickly can they expect something from you, because they’re making decisions about their business? PM : You’ll see that in every decision we’ve made. We’ve always moved as quickly as we can, but the wage subsidy has been a very big part of trying to meet some of those immediate cash flow. Costs in the vast majority have gone to small businesses in particular. Media : Should migrants be put on a benefit in the COVID-19 world, and are divisions in Cabinet over a migrant benefit the reason that the Government is not yet implementing this? Hon Carmel Sepuloni : I think you would have seen last week that Cabinet made the decision to invest another $30 million into the CDEM efforts, and that is to support not only with food but for accommodation, where people are experiencing hardship. So I just need to point out that that support, through CDEM, is not just available to New Zealanders or permanent residents or New Zealand citizens; it’s available to anyone that’s here in the country. PM : The point is the provision of support is already there, Bernard, so we made sure that because some of this in need is immediate—in the likes of Queenstown in particular—the fastest way that we could get that support in terms of accommodation, immediate food needs, and so on, was through that support on the ground through the emergency management team that we have down there. So that is, essentially, what Work and Income would otherwise do is being directly delivered through that form. Media : But the Minister was asked will migrants who are stuck here have access to the benefit in a similar way that others— PM : And I’ve just explained that this is similar to what the benefit would provide in terms of support. Media : Can I just ask a question on behalf of a viewer, they want to know about cemeteries and whether they’ll be open under Level 3, because they haven’t been able to go and farewell their loved one under level 4 who died just before the lockdown. PM : Yes. Obviously there had been burials, and those are now able to take place with up to 10 people as part of funeral arrangements. In terms of wider openings, that’s actually something I would need to check at a council level. Thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Kia ora koutou katoa, good afternoon. Welcome everyone to day one of alert level 3. I want to begin by stressing that at alert level 3 we are not out of the woods. As I have said before, it is a recovery room, of sorts, to assess if the incredible work that New Zealanders have done at level 4 to break the virus’s chain of transmission and prevent further community outbreak has worked. As Siouxsie Wiles said today, “There may still be some smouldering ashes out there. And they have the potential to become a wildfire again if we give them the chance. It can take from two to 10 days for people who are exposed to the COVID-19 coronavirus to come down with symptoms. That means we wouldn’t smell the smoke for a few weeks. And that could put us back where we started before the lockdown.” So with more people going back to work today, we need to be even more vigilant at level 3 to prevent any inadvertent spreading of the virus. We must continue to stay home where possible, including for work and education. Please stay regional and limit non-essential travel, and even though you can expand your bubble, keep it as small as possible, and exclusive. And finally, if you’re sick, stay home and contact your GP or Healthline and get tested. It may feel like a minor symptom to you, but it could be a significant issue for all of us. What level 3 does represent, however, is the move towards getting our economy moving again, to getting more New Zealanders back to work, and to opening more of our businesses. Businesses restarting at level 3 will see around 400,000 more New Zealanders back at work, taking the total to around 1 million Kiwis working. At level 3, around 75 percent of the economy is operating, with key sectors like building and construction, forestry, manufacturing, and contactless retail starting back up. Importantly, major infrastructure projects start up again today. Over a thousand road and rail construction workers are back working on major projects like Transmission Gully and the CRL in Auckland. However, we also know that the lockdown has displaced many workers, and there is real need for jobs in our community. The Government—we will do all we can to ensure we fight the economic impacts of the virus in the same way we did the health threat, with unity, with fast support, by looking after one another. I’m joined here today by Minister for Social Development, Carmel Sepuloni, who will have more to say on further measures we have put in place to support workers and businesses, including an online job platform to keep workers and companies connected, extra employment centres, and agreement with industry on providing rapid micro-credentials for people needing to retrain. I’ll hand over to Minister Sepuloni. --- Section Separator --- Hon Carmel Sepuloni : Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Over the last few weeks, we have paid out $10.46 billion worth of wage subsidies to keep 1,694,281 New Zealanders in work and connected to their employers. It’s been a huge task to implement, but also a satisfying one. The feedback from employers and employees has been overwhelmingly positive but we still have work to do. As a Government, we need to continue to be responsive to the evolving situation in response to the impacts of COVID-19. We know that a big part of keeping people connected is about keeping New Zealand working. Even before lockdown, our Government had developed and launched our employment strategy in August of last year—and I acknowledge our Minister of Employment, Willie Jackson, for his leadership on that important work—and part of our welfare overhaul was seeing MSD ramping up employment-related focus. Last year we boosted MSD’s work-focused case managers by 263 and invested significantly in programmes that support both employment and upskilling and training, like Mana in Mahi. Before New Zealanders went into alert level 4, the Government worked quickly to stand up rapid-response teams from MSD across the country to work in regions immediately affected, regions like Tai Rāwhiti. These teams have been helping to connect people out of work up with employers in some of our most hard-hit sectors. Under alert level 4, MSD continued to place people into work over the phone, including supporting the redeployment of people to essential services. This work has made a difference for many New Zealanders, and we’re still poised to respond in earnest. As a result of the impacts of COVID-19, unemployment will rise before it improves. We need to continue to act quickly to keep New Zealand working. That’s why we’re announcing today a suite of Keep New Zealand Working employment service initiatives to support those who may be out of work or at risk of losing their job. These will be delivered through MSD so that we can effectively engage with more New Zealanders in this unprecedented time. The Keep New Zealand Working online job platform is now live. It connects job seekers—any job seeker—directly to the employer, making it quicker and easier for people to find work. It also provides training courses for those looking to upskill. You can access it via the Work and Income site. We will also have 35 new employment centres across the country. Through these employment centres, MSD staff will work with employers and job seekers under level 3 over the phone and online to match up employment opportunities. This will expand to face-to-face engagements with clients and employers and providers under level 2. We are implementing other services, which will fast track those people that need to re-engage quickly with the job market and a specific service for those directly impacted by COVID-19 who are not on main benefit. These initiatives are key to supporting New Zealanders during a time when rising unemployment due to COVID-19 is a global phenomenon. We’re already seeing dramatic increases in unemployment in countries around the world like Australia and the UK, and New Zealand has not escaped this reality. Finally, I’d like to say we administered the wage subsidy for 1.6 million workers successfully over four weeks of lockdown by working hard and being adaptable. We will deliver our employment efforts with the same dedication and resilience to keep New Zealand working. --- Section Separator --- PM : All right, thank you, Minister. We’re happy to take questions. Media : Prime Minister, do you stand by your statement yesterday that we’ve won the battle when it comes to contact tracing? PM : You’ll remember, of course, the Director-General pointed to his view that we have reached a gold standard, but I continue to place the caveat on that that when it comes to contact tracing, we’ve managed to do that in an environment with a low number of cases and whilst we’ve been in lockdown. The key for us will be, as we ease those restrictions, maintaining that level, but also, for that, I call upon all New Zealanders to help us. If you have symptoms, get a test, because the clock starts running and counting down as soon as you feel sick. Media : And so you maintain that we’ve won the battle against community transmission? PM : On community—but it is an ongoing battle. There is not one point in time that this mission ends now. Yes, we have done that in lockdown. The goal now is to keep up that work. So we’re now in the next phase of the battle, and we are not done—I don’t think anyone will dispute that I have said that continuously, and you have all benefited from hearing that ad nauseam. Media : Is there a magic number of cases that you would keep us in level 3? What’s the number of cases that would count as that wildfire that you talk about? PM : Yeah, you’ll recall that, actually, I pointed to a scenario in Taiwan, for instance, where they’ve managed to get down to very low numbers of cases—sometimes zero—but in recent days they’ve had the return of a navy ship that has brought their caseload up. So it very much depends on the circumstances. But, again, I also rely on the advice and information by our epidemiologists and by the Director-General as to whether or not we’re in the position to move to a lower alert level. Media : We heard from small businesses at the select committee this morning saying that they’re really struggling and, with only a handful of cases, why are we still in all these restrictions under level 3? Especially with people like MPs and Ministers coming back to work, can you justify to them why they can’t? PM : Yes. And look, with caution. And this is where I really cannot emphasise enough: no one wants a second wave in New Zealand, and we must guard against that. So we are moving cautiously down through the alert levels so that we don’t have to go backwards. That would be terrible for New Zealanders’ health, but also the economy. So it is about moving with certainty in the hope that we don’t go backwards. The next point I would make, in terms of why is it that some workplaces are going back and others are not. We have placed special requirements at alert level around things like retail or where you have high degrees of contact with large numbers of people. In this room right now, we know everyone who is in this room. And in workplaces, we are able to manage, then, who people are having contact with—much harder in hospitality, in retail, where you have larger numbers coming together and often in close contact. Media : In terms of timing, will you give people warning? PM : Yes. Media : I know 11 May is when you will decide, but how much warning will you give people? PM : Well, look, as a general guide, I’ve never come down here—and have no intention of coming down here—and dramatically lifting alert levels in one announcement, without there being a timeline for the way that that will be implemented. Of course, you will have seen to date that, often, we’ve given a period of notice—whether it’s been 48 hours, or others. That’s always been so people can plan and prepare, and so that we can do it in a really confident and controlled manner. And I think, by-and-large, that’s been an accepted approach. Media : Could the Government have done a better job in communicating what elimination is? Because yesterday Dr Ashley Bloomfield said that we can achieve the goal of elimination—obviously what he was referring to is achieving the goal of elimination, or the goals of elimination—under level 4. Can you understand why people are very confused? PM : You will have heard—and this something, just, a simple matter of the fact that we are all now entering into the world of epidemiologists. And they know well what each of these terms mean in a health sense, but of course, in an everyday sense they mean often something different. You’ll have heard me continually say elimination does not mean zero cases. It will mean an ongoing campaign and zero tolerance for cases. We will have to keep stamping COVID out until there is a vaccine. We are not done, but you can see that we have managed, successfully, under lockdown, to end community transmission. We need to keep doing that as we go. Media : Last week Phil Twyford told attendees at a conference that any move by councils to trim rates will impact the Government’s ability, or willingness, to invest in partnerships in infrastructure. Is that the Government’s policy? PM : Look, what we do know is that, in the same way that there will be an impact on revenue on Government, there will likewise be with council. But actually, what we need to ensure is that we have a joined-up approach for acknowledging that there is actually, now, more than ever, the need to invest in infrastructure for the stimulus that will be providing; whilst also having an eye to the day-to-day impact of costs, in all forms, to households when many people are suffering the economic impacts of COVID. So those are the two competing interests that central government and local government will need to work on together. I’m confident we can. Media : Schools and ECEs open tomorrow—what proportion are ready to open? How many children are they expecting? And have some teachers already been asked to help out other schools because of demand? PM : I haven’t had that report from the Ministry of Education, but certainly what I am getting—the initial feedback I’ve had—is that the numbers that are returning are very low. Again, I want to wait for the official word from the Ministry of Education, but initial signs are that we’re expecting a very, very small number to return to schools. That’s as it should be. We are still asking people to stay home and work from home and learn from home if they can. And I think you will see tomorrow that that will show up in the low number of people back in ECEs and in schools. Media : Prime Minister, Māori around the country have been putting rāhui on rivers in a continued effort to keep communities safe, for example, there’s a rāhui on the Waikato and Waipā rivers. The local iwi of Waitahanui near Taupō have put a rāhui on their river and it’s stopping licenced anglers from fishing there. Those anglers are upset, they say they have every right to fish at level 3—who’s in the right here? PM : Well, we have not removed people’s rights at level 3 around accessing shore-based fishing, and so that has been the decision that we’ve made within the alert level framework. Look, what we have continued to do is, when local iwi have had concerns in their own areas, we’ve often been able to that through. So there I would ask iwi to work alongside DOC, those administering the licencing, and police, to make sure that we’re not impeding what are legal access rights, and that we have given permission for. Media : So in this case, local DOC has shown some support from the iwi perspective, so if those things are put in place, you’re happy for iwi to intervene in that way? PM : Again, we have made a decision nationally, and it is my job to make sure consistency there. We’ve said that we haven’t wanted access to DOC land for hunters, but there will be some crossover where accessing some of these areas will require DOC land access—so some complexity that I’d be keen for us to work through with iwi, and with DOC. Media : Prime Minister, we heard from small business owners this morning on the committee that in terms of make or break for their survival it’s going to come down to those commercial rents. Some are not doing anything to help; some who are deferring are still expecting a full payment in coming weeks. What more, if anything, can actually be done to help them? PM : Yeah, and this is where we really did look into what we were able to provide here, and there are limitations on how far we could go, as Government, when it came to commercial leases. But what I would, again, point out is in the best interests of not just the New Zealand economy or, indeed, small business, but those commercial landlords, in this particular environment, not coming to an arrangement that’s workable for you and your tenant, you may find yourself with a vacant property at a time that will be very, very difficult to lease. So here we just are encouraging that dialogue. Media : It is clear, though, that that message is not getting through. I mean the Chamber of Commerce wouldn’t have been saying this morning that it hasn’t worked if it had. So that’s not getting through. So, what— PM : And in the same hearing we had another commercial landlord who very much disputed that it wasn’t happening. Again, I will keep continually reminding people, first and foremost, make sure you make the most of the tax provisions that we’ve put up to help with cash flow issues. Make sure you use the wage subsidy. Talk to your bank and talk to your landlord. In the meantime, as a Government, we will keep looking and assessing what we can do to keep those businesses operating and keep people employed. Media : Even at level 2, with hard borders, tourism businesses, or those exposed to international tourism, are not going to be able to trade. PM : Yeah. Media : Is there are a case for a special deal there? Is that an area you’re looking at specifically? PM : We’ve always said we want to keep monitoring the impact on different sectors, and I’d say tourism would be a very obvious one. Those who work in the space of large events, let’s not forget they were amongst the first to be affected and the last who are likely to be able to operate again. So there are specific areas where we are working on what additional support, redeployment, or initiatives from Government can support the ongoing employment of those people who have previously been in that sector. I’ll just take a couple more. Media : Will the wage subsidy be extended out from 12 weeks for those sectors that are really hard hit and aren’t going to back to normal in the next five weeks? PM : And that’s where potentially you start looking at more specific and specially designed initiatives that will address the needs of what are a very particular set of businesses. Keeping in mind that the wage subsidy: here we are after five weeks in, with a 12-week subsidy still in place. And so for us, it’s actually looking at whether or not there are more specific initiatives that should be designed. Media : You’ve said previously that you can’t freeze commercial rents; there’s no legislative mechanism for you to do that. But now that the House is sitting again, have you considered any sort of emergency legislation? PM : No, because it was not over the availability of the House but the provisions under the legislation, which did not provide us the same provisions under the Residential Tenancies Act. Media : Sure, but you’re not looking at any legislative change to enable that? PM : You’ll remember what we are looking at, and, of course, this requires the House, is arrears and the ability to terminate. So where we had the ability to make changes, we are. Media : A lot of the small businesses are asking for direct cash grants for cash payments from the Government for rent relief specifically. Would you consider those or interest-free loans? PM : Again, what we’ve said all the way through is we are continuing to look at the impact COVID-19 is having, particularly on our small businesses, to see what more the Government can do to assist. Not everyone is going to make it, but we do want to make sure that those businesses that are vulnerable but viable are supported as best we can. Media : But they’re saying it’s an immediate need, so how quickly can they expect something from you, because they’re making decisions about their business? PM : You’ll see that in every decision we’ve made. We’ve always moved as quickly as we can, but the wage subsidy has been a very big part of trying to meet some of those immediate cash flow. Costs in the vast majority have gone to small businesses in particular. Media : Should migrants be put on a benefit in the COVID-19 world, and are divisions in Cabinet over a migrant benefit the reason that the Government is not yet implementing this? Hon Carmel Sepuloni : I think you would have seen last week that Cabinet made the decision to invest another $30 million into the CDEM efforts, and that is to support not only with food but for accommodation, where people are experiencing hardship. So I just need to point out that that support, through CDEM, is not just available to New Zealanders or permanent residents or New Zealand citizens; it’s available to anyone that’s here in the country. PM : The point is the provision of support is already there, Bernard, so we made sure that because some of this in need is immediate—in the likes of Queenstown in particular—the fastest way that we could get that support in terms of accommodation, immediate food needs, and so on, was through that support on the ground through the emergency management team that we have down there. So that is, essentially, what Work and Income would otherwise do is being directly delivered through that form. Media : But the Minister was asked will migrants who are stuck here have access to the benefit in a similar way that others— PM : And I’ve just explained that this is similar to what the benefit would provide in terms of support. Media : Can I just ask a question on behalf of a viewer, they want to know about cemeteries and whether they’ll be open under Level 3, because they haven’t been able to go and farewell their loved one under level 4 who died just before the lockdown. PM : Yes. Obviously there had been burials, and those are now able to take place with up to 10 people as part of funeral arrangements. In terms of wider openings, that’s actually something I would need to check at a council level. Thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily media conference 28 April 2020 Transcript of the Post-Cabinet media conference 28 April 2020
The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference here.
Home Updates Transcript of daily media conference 30 April 2020 --- Section Separator --- PM : Kia ora koutou katoa. Good afternoon. Welcome to day three at alert level 3. Today, I’m going to update you on our ongoing enforcement actions under COVID-19 alert level 3, as I know that there are many New Zealanders who are anxious about compliance at this level. But first, as per usual, I will hand over to the Director-General of Health for his update. Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Tena koutou katoa. Today, we have three new confirmed cases to report. One is linked to an existing case, and the two others are under investigation still. In addition, we have reclassified what was previously a probable case as not a case. This means our total for confirmed cases is now 1,129, and this is the number we report to the World Health Organization. The total number of probable cases is 347, and our overall total is 1,476 cases. I’m pleased to say there are no further deaths to report today, and we currently have seven people in hospital, none of whom are in intensive care. There was a significant increase in testing yesterday, with 5,867 tests performed, and our new total tests is 134,570. Of our cases, 1,241 are reported as recovered, and this represents an increase of 12, and 84 percent of all cases are now considered recovered. There are no additional cases within our clusters, and the total number of clusters that are of at least 10 cases or more remains at 16. Now, as we move back into level 3, routine healthcare is commencing again—and by this, I’m talking about screening tests and childhood immunisation. We have had some feedback from the sector that people may be misconstruing text reminders as being an error and the machine not having been turned off. These important preventive procedures are now back up and going, and I encourage everybody, if you do get a text, a phone call, or a reminder about, for example, a childhood immunisation or a cervical smear, to please go and get that care. It’s very important not to delay what are essential parts of keeping well. People should also not delay seeking care for acute conditions and even maintenance. If you have a chronic condition, please do get in touch with your practitioner. As you will be aware, they can do many of those consultations virtually as well. If you get an appointment from the hospital for an X-ray or other investigation or an outpatient appointment, please do take up that invitation. The hospitals have very good procedures in place to keep you safe. A final update on the section 70 notice. An amended Health Act order has been published on the Ministry of Health website. You will find it in the epidemic notices section on the Ministry of Health website. The new order amends the previous one to specify the following: people can travel to care for their pets and other animals, because we know it’s important to look after these important members of our households or where we’re living. So we’ve clarified that veterinary services are permitted to be contact services, which means you can go into the premises to drop off pets or other animals that require care. Also, hunting of game birds for recreation purposes is not permitted at alert level 3. This means, for instance, people cannot go duck shooting and the like during alert level 3. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM: Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. New Zealand’s move to alert level 3 gets 400,000 extra New Zealanders back to work and means that roughly 75 percent of the economy is now operating. But as we’ve said, this extra activity does come with extra responsibility—the responsibility, as I’ve said repeatedly, to keep up the amazing effort that the team of 5 million has put in to fight the virus. So while people can now enjoy takeaways and pick-ups, it is vital that we keep our physical distancing and stay at home if there is no proper reason to be outdoors. Police have an online level 3 breach reporting tool via police 105. As of 5.30 p.m. yesterday, 1,035 complaints had been received, with 277 referred to the compliance assessment team. Of those, 104 had been tasked with further action by agencies. Some have been followed up by MBIE, Police, WorkSafe, and MPI—all dependent on the type of breach that may have occurred. The common themes of complaints were lack of social distancing, business breaches by patrons or staff, safe operating practices for cafes, recreational activities, and specific complaints about in-home gatherings. In addition, the all-of-Government response team has a compliance centre that is monitoring the news that is being reported, so we’re not waiting, necessarily, for a member of the public to make a complaint. If we see reporting through the news of compliance issues, then those are being followed up proactively, as well. New figures also show the ongoing police response to enforcement, including a total of 185 breaches of the CDEM or Health Acts under alert level 3—that’s an increase of 81 in the past 24 hours; 46 prosecuted, an increase of 21 in 24 hours; 119 warnings, that’s an increase of 48; and 20 youth referrals, that’s an increase of eight. There are, of course, ongoing police assurance patrols, and over the course of the last two days there have been 1,400 of those by the police. Police have also advised that after a bit of a spike in the first 24 hours of level 3, things have started to calm down—a similar pattern that we saw when we first moved into lockdown. So as I have said, we all have a responsibility to make this new phase of our COVID response work. Please, continue to act like you have the virus when you’re out and about, and if you see breaches, please report them. The last thing we can afford is a spike in cases due to taking our foot off the pedal, and, as has been reported today, we do still have cases that are coming through. And so now is not the time to loosen up our compliance. Yesterday I provided a preliminary figure on school and ECE attendance. I can confirm that around 2 percent of year 1 to 10 school children attended yesterday, and around 4 percent of ECE. As I said yesterday, this is actually a really strong indication of the caution New Zealanders are taking at level 3, and that is exactly what we were wanting: that ultimately, everyone who could stay home was staying home, but those who needed to were able to access education. Other news I can share with you today is that Parliament will pass under urgency a significant package of tax changes to provide further cash-flow to support small businesses, and these are ones that we have shared with you before. Our package releases more than $3 billion through the tax system to help small and medium sized enterprises as they continue to deal with the economic impact of COVID-19. As you will recall, that includes the ability to carry over tax losses and so on. I can also share a breakdown of how much of the wage subsidy’s been paid to our smaller firms. More than $1.25 billion has been paid to about 188,000 sole traders. A further $4.27 billion has gone to 160,000 small businesses that employ between one and 19 staff, and almost 8,900 medium sized enterprises, so up to 99 staff, have been paid $1.3 billion. Just as a reminder, people in receipt of that wage subsidy are those who can demonstrate hardship through COVID-19, and are required to pass all of that wage subsidy directly on to their staff members. It’s one way that we have undoubtedly been able to limit the amount of job loss through this period. Many of our smaller Kiwi firms will be operating again under level 3, but they do still face tough times, so one thing I want to encourage everyone to do is to think about supporting local when you are engaging in contactless trade. This brings me, finally, to what is fast becoming a segment on Kiwi ingenuity. Thankyouhealthcare.co.nz is a website that contains business discounts for those working in our healthcare sector. It’s playing two roles, so not only is it targeted at discounts for our healthcare workers, it’s also targeted at businesses that may not be able to operate yet—be it accommodation or spa experiences or even elements of tourism—but is a way to thank healthcare workforces through significant discounts, whilst also helping some of those businesses prepare for the future where they’ll be able to reopen and operate. I do want to acknowledge Alika and Rahul, who came up with the idea of Thank You Healthcare. Rahul worked in the New Zealand tourism industry for 25 years, and was recently in hospital, and says, “Now is the time to … show our appreciation for everything these incredible people do, not just in [a time] of crisis, but every single day.” I couldn’t agree more. Ready for questions. Media : Prime Minister, when we were looking to move into level 3, you spoke about the pillars that we wanted to aim towards in order to move into level 3. What are those pillars that we’re aiming towards in terms of a move into level 2? PM : You will have heard us describe level 3 as the “waiting room”—the place where we check all of those things that we wanted to see at level 4 are actually in place: that we don’t have big surges in cases, that we don’t have community transmission, that we still have control of the virus, and that is what we’ll be looking for when we make that decision to move to the next alert level. We will be taking very seriously the advice of the Director-General of Health. So it may be something you may wish to comment on too, Ashley. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just a couple of comments: I think, similar to the move from alert level 4 to 3, we will be looking at any new cases emerging, where they are, and our ability to link those to existing cases. We will also be looking at the outcome of our surveillance testing, which all district health boards are doing apace today, and I think you saw that reflected in the increased number of laboratory tests—so quite a lot of that will be the surveillance testing happening around the country. And I think another thing we’re very interested in, of course, is the degree of compliance with the physical distancing measures, in particular, that businesses have put in place to operate under level 3, which will need to continue into level 2. So that will be a key indicator. Media : Do we need to get zero cases? Is that something that we need to see? Or is it just if we’re not seeing new cases that are linked to existing cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not necessarily zero, and as you’ve seen, and other countries have seen, there’s a long tail in these cases, and the key thing is keeping up that high rate of testing to make sure we’re identifying cases as well as our surveillance through general practice reporting of influenza-like illness and other surveillance through ESR and then being able to rapidly respond to that with our contact-tracing and case finding. PM : Just one final thing to add on that, we might have, on any given day, two, three cases, but all three of those could, for instance, come from someone who’s come in from overseas and is currently in quarantine. So that’s of far less concern to New Zealand than, for instance, someone that we may find in the community. So it does matter where those cases are coming from. Media : Prime Minister, staff at a fast food restaurant say that when they opened on Tuesday, physical distancing practices were not being adhered to inside the kitchen; workers had to work beside each other because of high demand. And they also say that the drive-thru isn’t working because, when they pass food over, their hands come into contact with the customers’ hands. Are takeaway restaurants doing enough to adhere to the standards? And how is that being checked? PM : We are expecting standards to be upheld by those who now have the responsibility to keep everyone safe when they’re trading. And so that is why we are taking enforcement very seriously. We do have not only the police out there but of course our labour inspectorate are concerned about whether or not standards are being maintained for those who are working in those environments too. So I do expect a high standard. It is a responsibility and a level of trust we are placing on those who are operating, but we will also enforce. Media : And what about, too, those workers who perhaps might feel they can’t speak up to their employers—might be afraid of the repercussions or consequences? What recourse do they have? What should they do in that situation? PM : What I think we’ve seen already through our reporting is that customers are willing to enforce as well, and so I would hope, ultimately, that workers feel they can safely make an approach to those who are involved in enforcement, including our inspectorate. But, even if they don’t, customers are very mindful of what they’re seeing. If they see unsafe practice, they are reporting it. Media : Can I ask about community checkpoints? Are they legal? And are you comfortable with them? PM : It is not legal for any member of the public to simply stop or prohibit the movement of others, but the police are, of course, able to do that. Where we’ve had community checkpoints, in some cases they’ve been information-sharing; it hasn’t necessarily been prohibiting travel. Where they have been cropping up, we’ve had police working alongside those checkpoints to make sure that what is happening is legal, is safe, and is there to support the community. Media : At what point do you want to see those community checkpoints gone? PM : Obviously, when we move down alert levels, that is an indication that we are in a safe position and so, therefore, the need for some of those measures that communities have often thought to put in place to protect themselves aren’t as necessary. Media : Dr Bloomfield, many elderly are spending weeks in hospital unnecessarily because they can’t go back to their rest homes without a test. Would the ministry reconsider this position given that a lot of these people are suffering unnecessarily? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So actually, what we’re doing—and I wrote to, well, actually, one of my colleagues wrote to the Aged Care Association two days ago, and I’ve had an email back from Simon Wallace, the chief executive, thanking us for reaching out. We’re actually going to sit down with them and look at all the information we’ve gleaned over the last few weeks about what we need to do to make sure our rest homes and aged residential care facilities are as safe as they can be, including from the process we’ve got under way to do an audit, or a review, of rest homes and facilities that have had cases, as well as information that the DHBs have cleaned by going around and checking on all of their facilities in their role. So we are doing that collectively with them, and that includes the role of testing for both residents who might be entering or coming back from hospital, those who are there already as well as staff, and what procedures we need to also put around that in terms of, if they do have a case, whether we need to provide other accommodation for staff members to stop them potentially infecting members of their family. So we’re looking at all of that collectively with them, and, as I say, that includes the role of testing for new residents coming in, both at the point of when they come in and also potentially while they’re in that 14-days isolation, because one of the things we’ve found is that some of those cases we’ve found in these facilities have no symptoms, and so we want to be sure we’re picking up any possible cases there. PM : Dr Bloomfield, remind me, but my recollection is that we’ve had one case via a patient that’s been brought into an aged care facility via a patient, and that was connected to overseas travel, is my recollection. So the vulnerability often has been via care workers and staff, and so I think that that singular focus on those who are residents, when actually it is that risk of those who are coming and going that we need to be very, very mindful of. Media : Prime Minister, on the day you said that we’ve won the battle on community transmission but must remain vigilant, is that the wrong message to send to the public when we haven’t actually started detailed testing in the community yet? We can’t categorically say whether we have won that battle. PM : Equally, probably the Director-General of Health commenting on that, but that was one of our tests for moving outside of alert level 4—was our level of confidence around community transmission. The level of testing in New Zealand is such to give us that confidence, but that is a moment in time. So I think what it’s fair to say is that while we can have confidence when we made that decision, we have to maintain our vigilance. We have to constantly ensure we’re still following those rules so that we can be assured that that is still the case. We continue our testing, we continue our border controls, we continue our isolation to keep giving us that assurance. I don’t think with COVID-19 anywhere will it be a matter for anyone in the world to say job done. This is going to be with us for a long time, and we will have to keep winning battles every step of the way. Media : The ministry figures show we have just 4 percent community transmission currently. However, 28 percent of positive cases got the virus in their local community. Has the Government been too narrow in the definition of community transmissions? PM : So you can have locally acquired but from an overseas source, so we make that distinction in the data we provide. The 4 percent around community transmission also has been over the entire course of our experience with COVID-19. So the decision to move alert levels, we very much focused in lockdown on whether or not we still had cases where we couldn’t determine the source of transmission. Dr Bloomfield, do you wish to comment on anything— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think you’ve summarised it well, Prime Minister. Media: Just in terms of the fact that Parliament has been disrupted quite majorly in the last four, five, six weeks, will this change the campaign period that the Government plans to have just before the election—i.e., will you be shortening that down so you can pass some of the legislation that needs to be passed? PM : At this stage we haven’t changed up the sitting schedule beyond obviously there’s a disruption of alert levels 3 and 4. So we’re looking to maintain that, but, of course, we work with the Business Committee on any changes to the parliamentary sitting schedule. Media : So at this stage that three-month campaign period is unchanged—it’s going to be the exact same? PM : Look, at this stage, but, again, we’ve had to be willing to work through what the alert levels mean for the sitting schedule as well, but no plans to change at this stage. Media : And the plans to have the election on 19 September—that’s the same? PM : No change there. Again, as I’ve said, the period at which we start really counting towards the election is, in the short term, electoral finance—that starts being monitored three months out from an election. So there is still time if needs be, but at this point, we’re making good progress and no intention to change the election date. Media : The Ministry of Health has written to private hospitals and private health providers saying that their plans for reimbursement for their costs over level 4 are sort of being revised and updated, the implication being that they might not get everything they ask for, and they might not be fully reimbursed for the costs that they expended staying open during level 4. Will those private healthcare providers be reimbursed for those costs—not for lost revenue but for the costs? PM : Yeah, the Ministry of Health is still working through some of those healthcare providers who have incurred costs through COVID-19, be it our maternity workforce, obviously GPs we’ve talked about in some detail, and there are then private hospitals. They have drawn a distinction between legitimate costs through COVID-19 but also not looking at lost revenue. So there is still work ongoing. The final point, though, that I’ll make, particularly for those in that sector, is that we will have a large tranche of electives that will need to be undertaken, so I expect that they will be very busy in the time to come. Media : The Government put up the benefits in response to COVID-19. Is that something that you’re looking to do again in the Budget, or is that just a one-off? PM : Obviously, I’m not going to make Budget announcements today, but one of the reasons we did that quickly, and that involved not only just a general benefit increase but also increases for the winter energy payment, was the dual impact of COVID on our lowest-income earners, and also the fact that when you want to stimulate the economy at any given point, making sure you’re giving more income to those who have the least almost guarantees it’s going to go back into the economy. Media : Prime Minister, do you have an update on the bill for MP pay cuts? Is that coming next week and is that part of the same bill allowing councillors to give part of their salary back to council? PM : So it’s all covered by the remuneration legislation, which is overseen by the Remuneration Authority, and so, yes, the way that MPs’ pay, and others such as local government, sits within that legislation. So we’re drafting that as we speak. You know that we’ve already made decisions about ourselves. It is certainly not for us to make decisions about anyone else, though. I expect that to be ready shortly, but regardless of the time lines for that, we’re still committed to six months—regardless of when it comes into Parliament. Media : A question on the regions, Prime Minister: there are four where there’s no current case of COVID-19. In Wanganui, there hasn’t been any case for 11 days, in Tai Rawhiti it’s 16 days, the West Coast 25 days, and it’s a full four weeks since there was a case in the Wairarapa. Given these places are some of the most disadvantaged in New Zealand, do you think there is a case of opening up movement in the economy sooner than other places. PM : Yeah, one of the things that you’ll have heard me talk about is we did give serious consideration to regional approaches, and there may be a time when we use them in the future, but when you think about the difference between alert level 3 and 4 for those areas, it is, for instance, engaging in online commerce—quite hard to draw regional distinctions on something like that. And, of course, then the other areas are just whether or not you’re trading face to face. For that, we still have to be mindful that New Zealanders move, and there are—for instance, the Wairarapa is an example where we do have people who commute for work. So some of those distinctions are a bit arbitrary when you’re really trying to make sure that we’ve got control of the virus and we aren’t transporting, where we may have cases, into other areas. So not for now—but we haven’t ruled it out in the future. Media : Could you do something, though, like let’s send them to level 2 ahead of other places and restrict movement between other regions? Is that possible? PM : Again, I haven’t ruled it out for any part of our COVID response, but we just haven’t utilised it at this phase. Media : In a follow-up to that in Maiki’s question before about level 2, couldn’t you make the case that we are at level 2 now in terms of the risk assessment? It speaks of the fact that household transmission could be occurring, single or isolated cluster outbreaks, whereas level 3 says there is a risk that community transmission might be happening. You seem to have said that that’s not the case, and you have confidence in that. So aren’t we at level 2 in terms of that risk level? PM : And that’s where that distinction about this waiting room is so important. So of course what we’ve also had to factor in as we’ve gone along is the very clear message that we’ve had in terms of the impacts of moving too quickly are the risks of second waves, are the risks that you may have had asymptomatic transfer or that, simply, there may have been a longer tail that’s bubbling away. And so level 3 allows us that time to check that we have control before moving with greater confidence. The last thing anyone wants is us to move prematurely, have a resurgence, and go back. That will be very bad for our health response, but equally horrific for our economy. Media : Does the Government have a strategy regarding a COVID-19 vaccine, and given our success in stamping out the virus, is there a concern that we could be put at the back of the queue if there is a vaccine developed overseas. PM : I’ll let Dr Bloomfield start. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can say is there’s very active work under way between ourselves and MBIE to finalise an approach that we’re going to take as a country, including everything from research—which might include participating in clinical trials—as well as ensuring we’re in the queue for whichever vaccine might be the one that’s successful; recalling there are, I think, upwards of 90 or 100 trials under way around the world at the moment. So we’re getting a planned approach to this and very keen on taking an Anzac approach to that as well, so working closely with Australia, and we’ll have some more about that within the next week. Media : Is there any work here specifically in New Zealand to develop a vaccine, because there has been talk about that among the community? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There has been talk, and there is interest from different research groups. At this point we’re not anticipating New Zealand’s best endeavours are to put funding and effort into trying to develop a vaccine but rather to work alongside other vaccine developers. It’s very expensive, and that doesn’t mean that our research groups here couldn’t do elements of the research that will contribute to international efforts and also, more importantly I think, be participating in potential clinical trials. But, as I say, that will be all covered in our vaccine approach, which is currently being worked on. PM : Keeping in mind, there’s also the difference between development and manufacture, and so that’s something that I think we shouldn’t—even if we’re not necessarily directly involved in one part, certainly can be in the other. Media : Prime Minister, we’ve been told that the Ministry of Social Development doesn’t have, or at the very least can’t provide, some detailed breakdowns of demographic data of those applying for the jobseeker benefit. Wouldn’t you need that to, sort of, inform detailed solutions, or targeted solution support? PM : We have been trying to pick up the pace of the data that we are providing around what’s happening with our benefits at a more rapid pace. So we are trying to churn that our more frequently. I would really need to ask the question around MSD as to whether or not that’s data that’s collected or just simply cannot be aggregated in short periods of time. But what we do know, because this is analysis that we can draw from even the work that Treasury has done as part of its living standards framework—we do know those regions, those demographics, those New Zealanders who are already profoundly affected by low incomes, who are more likely to work in precarious areas of work, so where they are more vulnerable to loss of hours or job loss. So that is information that we already have as a country, and it’s why we have, for instance, targeted so many of our initiatives, be it the Provincial Growth Fund or MSD support packages like Mana in Mahi. So whilst we might not have that specific data in COVID, there are things we already know about our community, which helps us target our response. Media : But you are working to aggregate that data? PM : Again, I don’t want to give you a specific answer without asking MSD directly around what the issues may be around quick turnover of some of that data. But they have been working hard to try and provide more information outside of the usual cycle of what they provide. Media : Prime Minister, Green Party co-leader Marama Davidson believes that essential workers should be getting at least a living wage. Do you agree? PM : I want all New Zealanders to be able to not only survive on what they earn but have a really good quality of life. Now, that should be the aspiration that everyone in New Zealand has for our fellow New Zealanders. What I think we’ve seen at the moment is a growing awareness of the critical role that people in jobs that have often been undervalued play. Media : But even in a short-term capacity, given that added health risk for essential workers and given that the Government has already invested billions of dollars into subsidies and packages, is this something that the Government could look at in a short-term basis—bringing those essential workers’ wages who are below a living wage up to a living wage? PM : What we have been doing is, for instance—for example our nursing workforce is working hard to see their wages lifted, and that’s something that we’ve been doing since we’ve been in Government. Equally, I would say the same, for instance, for people who are cleaners in our schools; again, that work we’ve already done to see their wages lifted. Where the Government has a role to play, we’ve played it. What I would ask the private sector is to value your workforce in the same way. We’ve seen the importance of people who are working on our frontline, whether they are cleaners, whether they collect waste, or whether they’re working at a supermarket. Media : Can I just ask a follow-on question to Charlie’s one about vaccines? There’s been some promising signs in the US about that antiviral drug, Remdesivir, which has been used for Ebola. Has the ministry here been given any advice about it; is New Zealand interested in that drug? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, well I heard Dr Fauci this morning waxing quite enthusiastically about it, so I did a little bit of research. I’m yet to see the study that he was referring to. Two earlier studies—one of which is published in The Lancet, actually—done in Wuhan didn’t show any impact of the drug and neither did the other one, so I’m very interested to see this. I should point out Remdesivir is still an investigatory drug; it’s not one that’s licensed for treatment for any condition in any country at the moment. So it’s very early in these trials, which also had relatively small numbers of participants, several hundred in each, so watching very closely. And this is an area of expertise of Dr Fauci, so I was particularly interested in his interpretation of the data. We’ll watch to see what happens when that is published. Media : Prime Minister, just on drugs, an analysis from the cybercrime unit in Australia has found that there are 645 listings for coronavirus-related medical products, including vaccines and respirators which have been found on the dark web. Have we seen any similar reports of alleged coronavirus vaccines on our dark web; and, if so, are we doing anything about them? PM : I have to say, in the monitoring that I receive, I’m not getting any of that data on an ongoing basis. Again, I can ask the question, but that’s not something that’s been proactively raised with me. Media : Prime Minister, can I ask a question on behalf of our The Project whanau, that Burger Fuel photo has sparked a debate about dobbing in violators. Big gatherings or small gatherings, how important is it that Kiwis report breaches of any size? PM : I think one of the things that’s driving that from Kiwis is that sense that, actually, we do all have a role to play. We’re members of a big team and our success is dependent on one another. And so I’m not sure that I would characterise it as dobbing, necessarily, because actually that’s not really in our culture as a country, but really a reflection of people really wanting us not to let one another down. And so I do think it’s probably just a matter of people saying “Actually, we’re doing our bit, we want you to as well”. Let’s make sure that we’re doing everything we can not to let the side down. Media : When it comes to regional travel under level 2, Air New Zealand put up a wish list of routes they’d like to take. What is the advice that you’ve developed around level 2? PM : So you will have seen that we’ve already put out some of the advice at the different alert levels. Cabinet will, of course, be discussing in a bit more finer detail, and I expect travel to be part of that. Again, just checking that we’ve got those settings right. As I said, we have actually worked through most of that already when we did the finer detail around alert level 3. But, as is our practice, we keep doing double-checks as we move through the alerts that we think it’s matching our needs at that time. Media : But will it just be the essential workforce that’ll be allowed to travel—non-essential still banned? PM : And we have, again, at alert level 2, a big focus for us there is still issues like mass gatherings and ongoing preventative measures on containment. And when you think about some of the outbreaks we’ve had, it’s often been that regional movement that’s been really problematic for us. But we keep assessing as we go to make sure we’ve got those settings right. Media : And therefore, looking at the idea of the trans-Tasman bubble, at what alert level would we need to be before we even entertain the idea letting Aussies come in? PM : Yeah, regardless, I think there’s actually quite a bit of work that needs to be done in that space, but I think you will have heard both Prime Minister Morrison and myself speak really positively about the potential there. We are both, as countries, working really hard to get control of COVID-19, and our goal is to make life feel as normal as possible and, eventually, I would hope that would mean our ability to have movement between our countries. But that is a longer-term goal. Media : A couple of days ago—or maybe a bit longer ago—you told us that you were going to be meeting with Dr Verrall again to talk about her contact tracing report. Can you tell us how that went, and her response to what you plan to do with her report? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, hot off the press, she was waiting in the Ministry of Health vestibule when I came to walk down here for this media conference, so she’s in there this afternoon, meeting with the team. So I’ll catch up with her later in the afternoon and see what her thoughts are. Media : Just a follow up on mass gatherings please, Prime Minister. Do you expect—whether or not we go into level 2 or 1—restrictions on mass gatherings to continue at least until the end of the year? PM : We haven’t put a strict time line around that, but in the short term, yes. Do continue to expect that there will be limitations around mass gatherings. In preparation for movement, though, of course we’ve been working with the hospitality association, others who are involved in areas of work that involve gatherings of people, just to try and prepare ourselves for some of those different alert levels. But do expect that to be part of our reality in the near term. Media : Dr Bloomfield, are you ruling out developing a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, no, it’s not for me to rule out, but we’ve got a good team of people—actually, the ministry effort, led by our Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town, who’s actually a respiratory doctor by training, and working with MBIE, and also with input from researchers around the country, are coming up with an approach. We’d like to take that to Ministers first, to get agreement, and then that will have advice around where we think our efforts are best focused at each point in the vaccine development and access cycle. Media : Prime Minister, Sir Peter Gluckman says Maori and iwi should be more involved in pandemic response decisions because of their holistic thinking. What measures is the Government taking to better include Maori? PM : I actually had a conversation with Professor Tahu Kukutai this morning and Professor Tracey McIntosh. They’re both members of our science advisory network, and we were reflecting together, actually, the really important part of our response that has been driven by iwi, by Whanau Ora providers, by Maori wardens who have been involved, and at a local community level, particularly. I do think that the innovation we’ve seen from Maori in response to COVID is something that we need to learn from and scale up, but also the Te Ao Maori approach of community wellbeing absolutely needs to be one of our ongoing lessons in our pandemic response. Media : Have you sent a message of congratulations to Prime Minister Johnson? PM : Yes, I have, just congratulating him on behalf of New Zealand for the birth of his baby boy. And I cannot imagine the rollercoaster of experiences him and his family have been having now, but this, I’m sure, will bring joy to his family. Media : Prime Minister, have you given thought to schools in terms of the fact that last time you gave them a week to open from 4 to 3? Will you do the same between level 3 and level 2? PM : Well, we haven’t put specific time lines. I have indicated that we do like to give a level of notice before we change alert levels, just to make sure that it’s considered, that it’s planned, and that we can do it with confidence. Anything abrupt with such big changes I don’t think’s actually good for New Zealand, let alone our education system. Media : Prime Minister, I appreciate a lot of these issues have been talked about in different parts of today’s conference, but I’m just trying to put a bow on it. It sounds like level 2 previously, and the level 2 we’re going to enter into, are going to look different in a number of respects. Is that fair to say? PM : Oh, no. I think probably people’s primary reflection from level 2 for the first period that we were in it was the issue of ongoing social distancing, and that stays; and issues around mass gatherings—the number of people in indoor venues and outdoor venues—and there’s no change there, either; and, of course, the expectations around the amount of domestic travel that was happening. So no, I think people will be already familiar, albeit for a short time, with what level 2 meant. Media : So gatherings of up to 100 people inside? PM : Yep, so you’ll see that all of that guidance remains the same at level 2. We do still need to be careful and cautious around issues of mass gatherings. You’ll see that for many countries that are changing and moving through their restrictions, mass gatherings are still a common theme that is remaining for many countries. Media : Just in terms of the distancing, when people are sort of in a restaurant or a cafe and they’re not allowed to be within 2 metres of each other, when does that go? Is that level 1 or level 0? PM : I’ll have to refresh and have a little look at that final guidance on level 1, but certainly at level 2, again, what we’re trying to do is just making sure that if we see any resurgence, that we make our contact tracing easier. And if you’ve been in a public space like a cafe, having 2 metres of distance means it’s less likely that someone else nearby who contracts COVID will have you winding up in isolation for two weeks. Last question. Media : Prime Minister, from a colleague, just to clarify, will regional travel potentially still be off the cards for non-essential workers at level 2? PM : Yeah, and that’s, again, we’re already—that is part of the guidance that we have given, but we as a Cabinet, as we have done in the past, have reconfirmed what will be happening at the different alert levels before we’ve moved into them. We will, again, give consideration specifically to the settings of alert level 2 before we make any announcements, so I’m happy to talk to you about them at that time. Media : Where are things at with that quick-fire PPE review that you ordered? PM : So sorry, that was the audit of PPE and the way it was being distributed by DHBs? Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so got a report late on Friday. Had a look at it over the weekend, actually, in great detail, and we’re just finalising a report on that to the Minister, and that will include the detail. That’ll go up to him later today, and then it’s in his hands, because he was the one who directed that, so he will decide how he will use that. For my part, looking at it I was very reassured by what I saw. Media : Why not release that publicly sooner? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Because it was the Minister who requested that, so I think it’s only appropriate that he sees the information and makes the decision about the release of it. Media : Still seems quite a long time before it got to him, though, right? If you got it on Friday. PM : He doesn’t have it yet? Media : Yeah, well, exactly. PM : Oh, I don’t think it’s unreasonable for the Ministry of Health and the Director-General of Health to take two days to look at a report and then give it to the Minister. All right— Media : One last question on behalf of others, please. What is your advice to New Zealand residents in the US, given the situation there? Should they come home? PM : Sorry, our advice for— Media : To New Zealand residents in the US. Should they come home? PM: Oh, look, we gave advice very early on in the pandemic around New Zealanders using the windows that were available for travel. Many New Zealanders who are overseas are resident overseas. They live there, they have jobs there, they have family there. And so our message some time ago was what they call in foreign affairs terms “shelter in place”: stay where you are—and we haven’t altered our advice since that time. OK, thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- PM : Kia ora koutou katoa. Good afternoon. Welcome to day three at alert level 3. Today, I’m going to update you on our ongoing enforcement actions under COVID-19 alert level 3, as I know that there are many New Zealanders who are anxious about compliance at this level. But first, as per usual, I will hand over to the Director-General of Health for his update. Dr Bloomfield. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Tena koutou katoa. Today, we have three new confirmed cases to report. One is linked to an existing case, and the two others are under investigation still. In addition, we have reclassified what was previously a probable case as not a case. This means our total for confirmed cases is now 1,129, and this is the number we report to the World Health Organization. The total number of probable cases is 347, and our overall total is 1,476 cases. I’m pleased to say there are no further deaths to report today, and we currently have seven people in hospital, none of whom are in intensive care. There was a significant increase in testing yesterday, with 5,867 tests performed, and our new total tests is 134,570. Of our cases, 1,241 are reported as recovered, and this represents an increase of 12, and 84 percent of all cases are now considered recovered. There are no additional cases within our clusters, and the total number of clusters that are of at least 10 cases or more remains at 16. Now, as we move back into level 3, routine healthcare is commencing again—and by this, I’m talking about screening tests and childhood immunisation. We have had some feedback from the sector that people may be misconstruing text reminders as being an error and the machine not having been turned off. These important preventive procedures are now back up and going, and I encourage everybody, if you do get a text, a phone call, or a reminder about, for example, a childhood immunisation or a cervical smear, to please go and get that care. It’s very important not to delay what are essential parts of keeping well. People should also not delay seeking care for acute conditions and even maintenance. If you have a chronic condition, please do get in touch with your practitioner. As you will be aware, they can do many of those consultations virtually as well. If you get an appointment from the hospital for an X-ray or other investigation or an outpatient appointment, please do take up that invitation. The hospitals have very good procedures in place to keep you safe. A final update on the section 70 notice. An amended Health Act order has been published on the Ministry of Health website. You will find it in the epidemic notices section on the Ministry of Health website. The new order amends the previous one to specify the following: people can travel to care for their pets and other animals, because we know it’s important to look after these important members of our households or where we’re living. So we’ve clarified that veterinary services are permitted to be contact services, which means you can go into the premises to drop off pets or other animals that require care. Also, hunting of game birds for recreation purposes is not permitted at alert level 3. This means, for instance, people cannot go duck shooting and the like during alert level 3. Thank you, Prime Minister. --- Section Separator --- PM: Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. New Zealand’s move to alert level 3 gets 400,000 extra New Zealanders back to work and means that roughly 75 percent of the economy is now operating. But as we’ve said, this extra activity does come with extra responsibility—the responsibility, as I’ve said repeatedly, to keep up the amazing effort that the team of 5 million has put in to fight the virus. So while people can now enjoy takeaways and pick-ups, it is vital that we keep our physical distancing and stay at home if there is no proper reason to be outdoors. Police have an online level 3 breach reporting tool via police 105. As of 5.30 p.m. yesterday, 1,035 complaints had been received, with 277 referred to the compliance assessment team. Of those, 104 had been tasked with further action by agencies. Some have been followed up by MBIE, Police, WorkSafe, and MPI—all dependent on the type of breach that may have occurred. The common themes of complaints were lack of social distancing, business breaches by patrons or staff, safe operating practices for cafes, recreational activities, and specific complaints about in-home gatherings. In addition, the all-of-Government response team has a compliance centre that is monitoring the news that is being reported, so we’re not waiting, necessarily, for a member of the public to make a complaint. If we see reporting through the news of compliance issues, then those are being followed up proactively, as well. New figures also show the ongoing police response to enforcement, including a total of 185 breaches of the CDEM or Health Acts under alert level 3—that’s an increase of 81 in the past 24 hours; 46 prosecuted, an increase of 21 in 24 hours; 119 warnings, that’s an increase of 48; and 20 youth referrals, that’s an increase of eight. There are, of course, ongoing police assurance patrols, and over the course of the last two days there have been 1,400 of those by the police. Police have also advised that after a bit of a spike in the first 24 hours of level 3, things have started to calm down—a similar pattern that we saw when we first moved into lockdown. So as I have said, we all have a responsibility to make this new phase of our COVID response work. Please, continue to act like you have the virus when you’re out and about, and if you see breaches, please report them. The last thing we can afford is a spike in cases due to taking our foot off the pedal, and, as has been reported today, we do still have cases that are coming through. And so now is not the time to loosen up our compliance. Yesterday I provided a preliminary figure on school and ECE attendance. I can confirm that around 2 percent of year 1 to 10 school children attended yesterday, and around 4 percent of ECE. As I said yesterday, this is actually a really strong indication of the caution New Zealanders are taking at level 3, and that is exactly what we were wanting: that ultimately, everyone who could stay home was staying home, but those who needed to were able to access education. Other news I can share with you today is that Parliament will pass under urgency a significant package of tax changes to provide further cash-flow to support small businesses, and these are ones that we have shared with you before. Our package releases more than $3 billion through the tax system to help small and medium sized enterprises as they continue to deal with the economic impact of COVID-19. As you will recall, that includes the ability to carry over tax losses and so on. I can also share a breakdown of how much of the wage subsidy’s been paid to our smaller firms. More than $1.25 billion has been paid to about 188,000 sole traders. A further $4.27 billion has gone to 160,000 small businesses that employ between one and 19 staff, and almost 8,900 medium sized enterprises, so up to 99 staff, have been paid $1.3 billion. Just as a reminder, people in receipt of that wage subsidy are those who can demonstrate hardship through COVID-19, and are required to pass all of that wage subsidy directly on to their staff members. It’s one way that we have undoubtedly been able to limit the amount of job loss through this period. Many of our smaller Kiwi firms will be operating again under level 3, but they do still face tough times, so one thing I want to encourage everyone to do is to think about supporting local when you are engaging in contactless trade. This brings me, finally, to what is fast becoming a segment on Kiwi ingenuity. Thankyouhealthcare.co.nz is a website that contains business discounts for those working in our healthcare sector. It’s playing two roles, so not only is it targeted at discounts for our healthcare workers, it’s also targeted at businesses that may not be able to operate yet—be it accommodation or spa experiences or even elements of tourism—but is a way to thank healthcare workforces through significant discounts, whilst also helping some of those businesses prepare for the future where they’ll be able to reopen and operate. I do want to acknowledge Alika and Rahul, who came up with the idea of Thank You Healthcare. Rahul worked in the New Zealand tourism industry for 25 years, and was recently in hospital, and says, “Now is the time to … show our appreciation for everything these incredible people do, not just in [a time] of crisis, but every single day.” I couldn’t agree more. Ready for questions. --- Section Separator --- Media : Prime Minister, when we were looking to move into level 3, you spoke about the pillars that we wanted to aim towards in order to move into level 3. What are those pillars that we’re aiming towards in terms of a move into level 2? PM : You will have heard us describe level 3 as the “waiting room”—the place where we check all of those things that we wanted to see at level 4 are actually in place: that we don’t have big surges in cases, that we don’t have community transmission, that we still have control of the virus, and that is what we’ll be looking for when we make that decision to move to the next alert level. We will be taking very seriously the advice of the Director-General of Health. So it may be something you may wish to comment on too, Ashley. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Just a couple of comments: I think, similar to the move from alert level 4 to 3, we will be looking at any new cases emerging, where they are, and our ability to link those to existing cases. We will also be looking at the outcome of our surveillance testing, which all district health boards are doing apace today, and I think you saw that reflected in the increased number of laboratory tests—so quite a lot of that will be the surveillance testing happening around the country. And I think another thing we’re very interested in, of course, is the degree of compliance with the physical distancing measures, in particular, that businesses have put in place to operate under level 3, which will need to continue into level 2. So that will be a key indicator. Media : Do we need to get zero cases? Is that something that we need to see? Or is it just if we’re not seeing new cases that are linked to existing cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not necessarily zero, and as you’ve seen, and other countries have seen, there’s a long tail in these cases, and the key thing is keeping up that high rate of testing to make sure we’re identifying cases as well as our surveillance through general practice reporting of influenza-like illness and other surveillance through ESR and then being able to rapidly respond to that with our contact-tracing and case finding. PM : Just one final thing to add on that, we might have, on any given day, two, three cases, but all three of those could, for instance, come from someone who’s come in from overseas and is currently in quarantine. So that’s of far less concern to New Zealand than, for instance, someone that we may find in the community. So it does matter where those cases are coming from. Media : Prime Minister, staff at a fast food restaurant say that when they opened on Tuesday, physical distancing practices were not being adhered to inside the kitchen; workers had to work beside each other because of high demand. And they also say that the drive-thru isn’t working because, when they pass food over, their hands come into contact with the customers’ hands. Are takeaway restaurants doing enough to adhere to the standards? And how is that being checked? PM : We are expecting standards to be upheld by those who now have the responsibility to keep everyone safe when they’re trading. And so that is why we are taking enforcement very seriously. We do have not only the police out there but of course our labour inspectorate are concerned about whether or not standards are being maintained for those who are working in those environments too. So I do expect a high standard. It is a responsibility and a level of trust we are placing on those who are operating, but we will also enforce. Media : And what about, too, those workers who perhaps might feel they can’t speak up to their employers—might be afraid of the repercussions or consequences? What recourse do they have? What should they do in that situation? PM : What I think we’ve seen already through our reporting is that customers are willing to enforce as well, and so I would hope, ultimately, that workers feel they can safely make an approach to those who are involved in enforcement, including our inspectorate. But, even if they don’t, customers are very mindful of what they’re seeing. If they see unsafe practice, they are reporting it. Media : Can I ask about community checkpoints? Are they legal? And are you comfortable with them? PM : It is not legal for any member of the public to simply stop or prohibit the movement of others, but the police are, of course, able to do that. Where we’ve had community checkpoints, in some cases they’ve been information-sharing; it hasn’t necessarily been prohibiting travel. Where they have been cropping up, we’ve had police working alongside those checkpoints to make sure that what is happening is legal, is safe, and is there to support the community. Media : At what point do you want to see those community checkpoints gone? PM : Obviously, when we move down alert levels, that is an indication that we are in a safe position and so, therefore, the need for some of those measures that communities have often thought to put in place to protect themselves aren’t as necessary. Media : Dr Bloomfield, many elderly are spending weeks in hospital unnecessarily because they can’t go back to their rest homes without a test. Would the ministry reconsider this position given that a lot of these people are suffering unnecessarily? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So actually, what we’re doing—and I wrote to, well, actually, one of my colleagues wrote to the Aged Care Association two days ago, and I’ve had an email back from Simon Wallace, the chief executive, thanking us for reaching out. We’re actually going to sit down with them and look at all the information we’ve gleaned over the last few weeks about what we need to do to make sure our rest homes and aged residential care facilities are as safe as they can be, including from the process we’ve got under way to do an audit, or a review, of rest homes and facilities that have had cases, as well as information that the DHBs have cleaned by going around and checking on all of their facilities in their role. So we are doing that collectively with them, and that includes the role of testing for both residents who might be entering or coming back from hospital, those who are there already as well as staff, and what procedures we need to also put around that in terms of, if they do have a case, whether we need to provide other accommodation for staff members to stop them potentially infecting members of their family. So we’re looking at all of that collectively with them, and, as I say, that includes the role of testing for new residents coming in, both at the point of when they come in and also potentially while they’re in that 14-days isolation, because one of the things we’ve found is that some of those cases we’ve found in these facilities have no symptoms, and so we want to be sure we’re picking up any possible cases there. PM : Dr Bloomfield, remind me, but my recollection is that we’ve had one case via a patient that’s been brought into an aged care facility via a patient, and that was connected to overseas travel, is my recollection. So the vulnerability often has been via care workers and staff, and so I think that that singular focus on those who are residents, when actually it is that risk of those who are coming and going that we need to be very, very mindful of. Media : Prime Minister, on the day you said that we’ve won the battle on community transmission but must remain vigilant, is that the wrong message to send to the public when we haven’t actually started detailed testing in the community yet? We can’t categorically say whether we have won that battle. PM : Equally, probably the Director-General of Health commenting on that, but that was one of our tests for moving outside of alert level 4—was our level of confidence around community transmission. The level of testing in New Zealand is such to give us that confidence, but that is a moment in time. So I think what it’s fair to say is that while we can have confidence when we made that decision, we have to maintain our vigilance. We have to constantly ensure we’re still following those rules so that we can be assured that that is still the case. We continue our testing, we continue our border controls, we continue our isolation to keep giving us that assurance. I don’t think with COVID-19 anywhere will it be a matter for anyone in the world to say job done. This is going to be with us for a long time, and we will have to keep winning battles every step of the way. Media : The ministry figures show we have just 4 percent community transmission currently. However, 28 percent of positive cases got the virus in their local community. Has the Government been too narrow in the definition of community transmissions? PM : So you can have locally acquired but from an overseas source, so we make that distinction in the data we provide. The 4 percent around community transmission also has been over the entire course of our experience with COVID-19. So the decision to move alert levels, we very much focused in lockdown on whether or not we still had cases where we couldn’t determine the source of transmission. Dr Bloomfield, do you wish to comment on anything— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think you’ve summarised it well, Prime Minister. Media: Just in terms of the fact that Parliament has been disrupted quite majorly in the last four, five, six weeks, will this change the campaign period that the Government plans to have just before the election—i.e., will you be shortening that down so you can pass some of the legislation that needs to be passed? PM : At this stage we haven’t changed up the sitting schedule beyond obviously there’s a disruption of alert levels 3 and 4. So we’re looking to maintain that, but, of course, we work with the Business Committee on any changes to the parliamentary sitting schedule. Media : So at this stage that three-month campaign period is unchanged—it’s going to be the exact same? PM : Look, at this stage, but, again, we’ve had to be willing to work through what the alert levels mean for the sitting schedule as well, but no plans to change at this stage. Media : And the plans to have the election on 19 September—that’s the same? PM : No change there. Again, as I’ve said, the period at which we start really counting towards the election is, in the short term, electoral finance—that starts being monitored three months out from an election. So there is still time if needs be, but at this point, we’re making good progress and no intention to change the election date. Media : The Ministry of Health has written to private hospitals and private health providers saying that their plans for reimbursement for their costs over level 4 are sort of being revised and updated, the implication being that they might not get everything they ask for, and they might not be fully reimbursed for the costs that they expended staying open during level 4. Will those private healthcare providers be reimbursed for those costs—not for lost revenue but for the costs? PM : Yeah, the Ministry of Health is still working through some of those healthcare providers who have incurred costs through COVID-19, be it our maternity workforce, obviously GPs we’ve talked about in some detail, and there are then private hospitals. They have drawn a distinction between legitimate costs through COVID-19 but also not looking at lost revenue. So there is still work ongoing. The final point, though, that I’ll make, particularly for those in that sector, is that we will have a large tranche of electives that will need to be undertaken, so I expect that they will be very busy in the time to come. Media : The Government put up the benefits in response to COVID-19. Is that something that you’re looking to do again in the Budget, or is that just a one-off? PM : Obviously, I’m not going to make Budget announcements today, but one of the reasons we did that quickly, and that involved not only just a general benefit increase but also increases for the winter energy payment, was the dual impact of COVID on our lowest-income earners, and also the fact that when you want to stimulate the economy at any given point, making sure you’re giving more income to those who have the least almost guarantees it’s going to go back into the economy. Media : Prime Minister, do you have an update on the bill for MP pay cuts? Is that coming next week and is that part of the same bill allowing councillors to give part of their salary back to council? PM : So it’s all covered by the remuneration legislation, which is overseen by the Remuneration Authority, and so, yes, the way that MPs’ pay, and others such as local government, sits within that legislation. So we’re drafting that as we speak. You know that we’ve already made decisions about ourselves. It is certainly not for us to make decisions about anyone else, though. I expect that to be ready shortly, but regardless of the time lines for that, we’re still committed to six months—regardless of when it comes into Parliament. Media : A question on the regions, Prime Minister: there are four where there’s no current case of COVID-19. In Wanganui, there hasn’t been any case for 11 days, in Tai Rawhiti it’s 16 days, the West Coast 25 days, and it’s a full four weeks since there was a case in the Wairarapa. Given these places are some of the most disadvantaged in New Zealand, do you think there is a case of opening up movement in the economy sooner than other places. PM : Yeah, one of the things that you’ll have heard me talk about is we did give serious consideration to regional approaches, and there may be a time when we use them in the future, but when you think about the difference between alert level 3 and 4 for those areas, it is, for instance, engaging in online commerce—quite hard to draw regional distinctions on something like that. And, of course, then the other areas are just whether or not you’re trading face to face. For that, we still have to be mindful that New Zealanders move, and there are—for instance, the Wairarapa is an example where we do have people who commute for work. So some of those distinctions are a bit arbitrary when you’re really trying to make sure that we’ve got control of the virus and we aren’t transporting, where we may have cases, into other areas. So not for now—but we haven’t ruled it out in the future. Media : Could you do something, though, like let’s send them to level 2 ahead of other places and restrict movement between other regions? Is that possible? PM : Again, I haven’t ruled it out for any part of our COVID response, but we just haven’t utilised it at this phase. Media : In a follow-up to that in Maiki’s question before about level 2, couldn’t you make the case that we are at level 2 now in terms of the risk assessment? It speaks of the fact that household transmission could be occurring, single or isolated cluster outbreaks, whereas level 3 says there is a risk that community transmission might be happening. You seem to have said that that’s not the case, and you have confidence in that. So aren’t we at level 2 in terms of that risk level? PM : And that’s where that distinction about this waiting room is so important. So of course what we’ve also had to factor in as we’ve gone along is the very clear message that we’ve had in terms of the impacts of moving too quickly are the risks of second waves, are the risks that you may have had asymptomatic transfer or that, simply, there may have been a longer tail that’s bubbling away. And so level 3 allows us that time to check that we have control before moving with greater confidence. The last thing anyone wants is us to move prematurely, have a resurgence, and go back. That will be very bad for our health response, but equally horrific for our economy. Media : Does the Government have a strategy regarding a COVID-19 vaccine, and given our success in stamping out the virus, is there a concern that we could be put at the back of the queue if there is a vaccine developed overseas. PM : I’ll let Dr Bloomfield start. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can say is there’s very active work under way between ourselves and MBIE to finalise an approach that we’re going to take as a country, including everything from research—which might include participating in clinical trials—as well as ensuring we’re in the queue for whichever vaccine might be the one that’s successful; recalling there are, I think, upwards of 90 or 100 trials under way around the world at the moment. So we’re getting a planned approach to this and very keen on taking an Anzac approach to that as well, so working closely with Australia, and we’ll have some more about that within the next week. Media : Is there any work here specifically in New Zealand to develop a vaccine, because there has been talk about that among the community? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There has been talk, and there is interest from different research groups. At this point we’re not anticipating New Zealand’s best endeavours are to put funding and effort into trying to develop a vaccine but rather to work alongside other vaccine developers. It’s very expensive, and that doesn’t mean that our research groups here couldn’t do elements of the research that will contribute to international efforts and also, more importantly I think, be participating in potential clinical trials. But, as I say, that will be all covered in our vaccine approach, which is currently being worked on. PM : Keeping in mind, there’s also the difference between development and manufacture, and so that’s something that I think we shouldn’t—even if we’re not necessarily directly involved in one part, certainly can be in the other. Media : Prime Minister, we’ve been told that the Ministry of Social Development doesn’t have, or at the very least can’t provide, some detailed breakdowns of demographic data of those applying for the jobseeker benefit. Wouldn’t you need that to, sort of, inform detailed solutions, or targeted solution support? PM : We have been trying to pick up the pace of the data that we are providing around what’s happening with our benefits at a more rapid pace. So we are trying to churn that our more frequently. I would really need to ask the question around MSD as to whether or not that’s data that’s collected or just simply cannot be aggregated in short periods of time. But what we do know, because this is analysis that we can draw from even the work that Treasury has done as part of its living standards framework—we do know those regions, those demographics, those New Zealanders who are already profoundly affected by low incomes, who are more likely to work in precarious areas of work, so where they are more vulnerable to loss of hours or job loss. So that is information that we already have as a country, and it’s why we have, for instance, targeted so many of our initiatives, be it the Provincial Growth Fund or MSD support packages like Mana in Mahi. So whilst we might not have that specific data in COVID, there are things we already know about our community, which helps us target our response. Media : But you are working to aggregate that data? PM : Again, I don’t want to give you a specific answer without asking MSD directly around what the issues may be around quick turnover of some of that data. But they have been working hard to try and provide more information outside of the usual cycle of what they provide. Media : Prime Minister, Green Party co-leader Marama Davidson believes that essential workers should be getting at least a living wage. Do you agree? PM : I want all New Zealanders to be able to not only survive on what they earn but have a really good quality of life. Now, that should be the aspiration that everyone in New Zealand has for our fellow New Zealanders. What I think we’ve seen at the moment is a growing awareness of the critical role that people in jobs that have often been undervalued play. Media : But even in a short-term capacity, given that added health risk for essential workers and given that the Government has already invested billions of dollars into subsidies and packages, is this something that the Government could look at in a short-term basis—bringing those essential workers’ wages who are below a living wage up to a living wage? PM : What we have been doing is, for instance—for example our nursing workforce is working hard to see their wages lifted, and that’s something that we’ve been doing since we’ve been in Government. Equally, I would say the same, for instance, for people who are cleaners in our schools; again, that work we’ve already done to see their wages lifted. Where the Government has a role to play, we’ve played it. What I would ask the private sector is to value your workforce in the same way. We’ve seen the importance of people who are working on our frontline, whether they are cleaners, whether they collect waste, or whether they’re working at a supermarket. Media : Can I just ask a follow-on question to Charlie’s one about vaccines? There’s been some promising signs in the US about that antiviral drug, Remdesivir, which has been used for Ebola. Has the ministry here been given any advice about it; is New Zealand interested in that drug? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, well I heard Dr Fauci this morning waxing quite enthusiastically about it, so I did a little bit of research. I’m yet to see the study that he was referring to. Two earlier studies—one of which is published in The Lancet, actually—done in Wuhan didn’t show any impact of the drug and neither did the other one, so I’m very interested to see this. I should point out Remdesivir is still an investigatory drug; it’s not one that’s licensed for treatment for any condition in any country at the moment. So it’s very early in these trials, which also had relatively small numbers of participants, several hundred in each, so watching very closely. And this is an area of expertise of Dr Fauci, so I was particularly interested in his interpretation of the data. We’ll watch to see what happens when that is published. Media : Prime Minister, just on drugs, an analysis from the cybercrime unit in Australia has found that there are 645 listings for coronavirus-related medical products, including vaccines and respirators which have been found on the dark web. Have we seen any similar reports of alleged coronavirus vaccines on our dark web; and, if so, are we doing anything about them? PM : I have to say, in the monitoring that I receive, I’m not getting any of that data on an ongoing basis. Again, I can ask the question, but that’s not something that’s been proactively raised with me. Media : Prime Minister, can I ask a question on behalf of our The Project whanau, that Burger Fuel photo has sparked a debate about dobbing in violators. Big gatherings or small gatherings, how important is it that Kiwis report breaches of any size? PM : I think one of the things that’s driving that from Kiwis is that sense that, actually, we do all have a role to play. We’re members of a big team and our success is dependent on one another. And so I’m not sure that I would characterise it as dobbing, necessarily, because actually that’s not really in our culture as a country, but really a reflection of people really wanting us not to let one another down. And so I do think it’s probably just a matter of people saying “Actually, we’re doing our bit, we want you to as well”. Let’s make sure that we’re doing everything we can not to let the side down. Media : When it comes to regional travel under level 2, Air New Zealand put up a wish list of routes they’d like to take. What is the advice that you’ve developed around level 2? PM : So you will have seen that we’ve already put out some of the advice at the different alert levels. Cabinet will, of course, be discussing in a bit more finer detail, and I expect travel to be part of that. Again, just checking that we’ve got those settings right. As I said, we have actually worked through most of that already when we did the finer detail around alert level 3. But, as is our practice, we keep doing double-checks as we move through the alerts that we think it’s matching our needs at that time. Media : But will it just be the essential workforce that’ll be allowed to travel—non-essential still banned? PM : And we have, again, at alert level 2, a big focus for us there is still issues like mass gatherings and ongoing preventative measures on containment. And when you think about some of the outbreaks we’ve had, it’s often been that regional movement that’s been really problematic for us. But we keep assessing as we go to make sure we’ve got those settings right. Media : And therefore, looking at the idea of the trans-Tasman bubble, at what alert level would we need to be before we even entertain the idea letting Aussies come in? PM : Yeah, regardless, I think there’s actually quite a bit of work that needs to be done in that space, but I think you will have heard both Prime Minister Morrison and myself speak really positively about the potential there. We are both, as countries, working really hard to get control of COVID-19, and our goal is to make life feel as normal as possible and, eventually, I would hope that would mean our ability to have movement between our countries. But that is a longer-term goal. Media : A couple of days ago—or maybe a bit longer ago—you told us that you were going to be meeting with Dr Verrall again to talk about her contact tracing report. Can you tell us how that went, and her response to what you plan to do with her report? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, hot off the press, she was waiting in the Ministry of Health vestibule when I came to walk down here for this media conference, so she’s in there this afternoon, meeting with the team. So I’ll catch up with her later in the afternoon and see what her thoughts are. Media : Just a follow up on mass gatherings please, Prime Minister. Do you expect—whether or not we go into level 2 or 1—restrictions on mass gatherings to continue at least until the end of the year? PM : We haven’t put a strict time line around that, but in the short term, yes. Do continue to expect that there will be limitations around mass gatherings. In preparation for movement, though, of course we’ve been working with the hospitality association, others who are involved in areas of work that involve gatherings of people, just to try and prepare ourselves for some of those different alert levels. But do expect that to be part of our reality in the near term. Media : Dr Bloomfield, are you ruling out developing a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, no, it’s not for me to rule out, but we’ve got a good team of people—actually, the ministry effort, led by our Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town, who’s actually a respiratory doctor by training, and working with MBIE, and also with input from researchers around the country, are coming up with an approach. We’d like to take that to Ministers first, to get agreement, and then that will have advice around where we think our efforts are best focused at each point in the vaccine development and access cycle. Media : Prime Minister, Sir Peter Gluckman says Maori and iwi should be more involved in pandemic response decisions because of their holistic thinking. What measures is the Government taking to better include Maori? PM : I actually had a conversation with Professor Tahu Kukutai this morning and Professor Tracey McIntosh. They’re both members of our science advisory network, and we were reflecting together, actually, the really important part of our response that has been driven by iwi, by Whanau Ora providers, by Maori wardens who have been involved, and at a local community level, particularly. I do think that the innovation we’ve seen from Maori in response to COVID is something that we need to learn from and scale up, but also the Te Ao Maori approach of community wellbeing absolutely needs to be one of our ongoing lessons in our pandemic response. Media : Have you sent a message of congratulations to Prime Minister Johnson? PM : Yes, I have, just congratulating him on behalf of New Zealand for the birth of his baby boy. And I cannot imagine the rollercoaster of experiences him and his family have been having now, but this, I’m sure, will bring joy to his family. Media : Prime Minister, have you given thought to schools in terms of the fact that last time you gave them a week to open from 4 to 3? Will you do the same between level 3 and level 2? PM : Well, we haven’t put specific time lines. I have indicated that we do like to give a level of notice before we change alert levels, just to make sure that it’s considered, that it’s planned, and that we can do it with confidence. Anything abrupt with such big changes I don’t think’s actually good for New Zealand, let alone our education system. Media : Prime Minister, I appreciate a lot of these issues have been talked about in different parts of today’s conference, but I’m just trying to put a bow on it. It sounds like level 2 previously, and the level 2 we’re going to enter into, are going to look different in a number of respects. Is that fair to say? PM : Oh, no. I think probably people’s primary reflection from level 2 for the first period that we were in it was the issue of ongoing social distancing, and that stays; and issues around mass gatherings—the number of people in indoor venues and outdoor venues—and there’s no change there, either; and, of course, the expectations around the amount of domestic travel that was happening. So no, I think people will be already familiar, albeit for a short time, with what level 2 meant. Media : So gatherings of up to 100 people inside? PM : Yep, so you’ll see that all of that guidance remains the same at level 2. We do still need to be careful and cautious around issues of mass gatherings. You’ll see that for many countries that are changing and moving through their restrictions, mass gatherings are still a common theme that is remaining for many countries. Media : Just in terms of the distancing, when people are sort of in a restaurant or a cafe and they’re not allowed to be within 2 metres of each other, when does that go? Is that level 1 or level 0? PM : I’ll have to refresh and have a little look at that final guidance on level 1, but certainly at level 2, again, what we’re trying to do is just making sure that if we see any resurgence, that we make our contact tracing easier. And if you’ve been in a public space like a cafe, having 2 metres of distance means it’s less likely that someone else nearby who contracts COVID will have you winding up in isolation for two weeks. Last question. Media : Prime Minister, from a colleague, just to clarify, will regional travel potentially still be off the cards for non-essential workers at level 2? PM : Yeah, and that’s, again, we’re already—that is part of the guidance that we have given, but we as a Cabinet, as we have done in the past, have reconfirmed what will be happening at the different alert levels before we’ve moved into them. We will, again, give consideration specifically to the settings of alert level 2 before we make any announcements, so I’m happy to talk to you about them at that time. Media : Where are things at with that quick-fire PPE review that you ordered? PM : So sorry, that was the audit of PPE and the way it was being distributed by DHBs? Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so got a report late on Friday. Had a look at it over the weekend, actually, in great detail, and we’re just finalising a report on that to the Minister, and that will include the detail. That’ll go up to him later today, and then it’s in his hands, because he was the one who directed that, so he will decide how he will use that. For my part, looking at it I was very reassured by what I saw. Media : Why not release that publicly sooner? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Because it was the Minister who requested that, so I think it’s only appropriate that he sees the information and makes the decision about the release of it. Media : Still seems quite a long time before it got to him, though, right? If you got it on Friday. PM : He doesn’t have it yet? Media : Yeah, well, exactly. PM : Oh, I don’t think it’s unreasonable for the Ministry of Health and the Director-General of Health to take two days to look at a report and then give it to the Minister. All right— Media : One last question on behalf of others, please. What is your advice to New Zealand residents in the US, given the situation there? Should they come home? PM : Sorry, our advice for— Media : To New Zealand residents in the US. Should they come home? PM: Oh, look, we gave advice very early on in the pandemic around New Zealanders using the windows that were available for travel. Many New Zealanders who are overseas are resident overseas. They live there, they have jobs there, they have family there. And so our message some time ago was what they call in foreign affairs terms “shelter in place”: stay where you are—and we haven’t altered our advice since that time. OK, thanks, everyone. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of daily media conference 30 April 2020
The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials started at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference. Transcript of daily COVID-19 media conference 9 April 2020
Easter is a four-day holiday. Easter starts Friday 10 April and finishes at the end of Monday 13 April. Usually, supermarkets are not allowed to open on Friday and Sunday during Easter. This year, the government has changed the rules so that some supermarkets can open on Sunday. This means: all supermarkets will be closed on Friday 10 April all supermarkets will be open as usual on Saturday 11 April most supermarkets will be open on Sunday 12 April most supermarkets will be open on Monday 13 April all supermarkets will be open as usual on Tuesday 14 April. You can contact your local supermarket to find out if it will be open on Sunday 12 April. Some rural supermarkets may also be closed on Monday 13 April. Most supermarkets will only be closed for one day, so you won’t have to wait long before they are open again. If you already have enough food at home, it is a good idea to wait and go later, so that other people can get what they need before the supermarkets shut. Remember, if you are at the supermarket or waiting to go in and you see people you do not live with, even if you know them, you need to stay two metres away from them. Two metres is about the length of two supermarket trolleys. Easy read when the supermarket will be open this Easter [PDF, 902 KB] Easy read when the supermarket will be open this Easter [DOCX, 1.5 MB] Large print Easter supermarket hours [PDF, 112 KB] Large print Easter supermarket hours [DOCX, 62 KB] During the Easter weekend the 0800 779 997 government helpline will be available over the following hours: Friday 10 April, 8am to 1pm Saturday 11 April, 8am to 5pm Sunday 12 April, 8am to 1pm Monday 13 April, 8am to 5pm For advice, support and general enquiries, the 0800 22 66 57 will be available from 8am to 5pm over the Easter weekend. If you’d like to celebrate Easter, there are ways you can do so safely. You can join an online or broadcast Easter service, and you can call or jump online to reach friends and family. Don’t be tempted to join your “bubbles” or households together. If you’re in a position to and would like to help others in your community over Easter, you can donate a trolley of food by looking up your local food bank online or talk to them about donating financially to those in need.
New Zealand has eight new cases of COVID-19, all overseas travel related. There are four new cases in Auckland, one in Christchurch, two in Waikato and one in Invercargill. Read more (health.govt.nz) (external link)
The Government has made changes to the wage subsidy scheme to help keep businesses and workers connected during this unprecedented time. These changes apply from 4pm Friday 27 March. Businesses accessing the scheme must still undertake best endeavours to pay employees 80% of their pre-COVID income. Where that is not possible – in particular where a business has no activity whatsoever due to the shutdown and workers are not working any hours – they must pass on at least the whole value of the wage subsidy to each affected worker. Businesses must undertake to keep employees in employment for the period of the subsidy. The original sick leave scheme is being folded into this updated wage subsidy scheme. For essential workers, the Government is working on arrangements for those in essential work who require sick leave due to COVID-19. The wage subsidy is $585.80 a week for full-time workers (who worked 20 or more hours per week before COVID-19) and $350 a week for part-time workers (fewer than 20 hours). It will continue to be paid out in a lump sum covering the 12 weeks, meaning a $7,029.60 payment per full time worker. Read more about these changes on the Beehive website (external link)
The Government has announced a set of new relief measures for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) during the COVID-19 pandemic. The new measures include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. The Government has already introduced a wide range of measures to assist businesses through the crisis. This includes the wage subsidy scheme, the Business Finance Guarantee scheme, and a package of business tax changes. While these measures apply to businesses beyond just SMEs, they provide substantial benefits to the SME sector. More changes were needed however, to boost confidence and help SMEs get through the crisis. Without further support from the Government, these otherwise-viable SMEs may be forced to close down permanently. Media release and fact sheet on the Beehive website (external link) More information on the tax measures is available on the Inland Revenue website (external link)
Minister of Transport Phil Twyford has today announced details of the Government’s support package to keep key air freight moving and ensure New Zealanders retain access to essential goods during the four-week level 4 lockdown. At this stage up to $330 million of the aviation support package will be allocated to: Ensuring air freight capacity is available on key routes for at least the next 6 months. Dealing with immediate risks and opportunities as they arise in the aviation sector. Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
Transport Minister Phil Twyford today outlined the first tranche of the $600 million aviation sector relief package announced earlier this week as part of the Government’s $12.1 billion COVID-19 economic response. The initial part of the aviation package aims to secure the operators of New Zealand’s aviation security system, and includes: Financial support to airlines to pay passenger-based government charges for the next 6 months ($163 million) and to cover Airways related fees for the next six months ($37 million), Any fee rises or pricing reviews from agencies that charge fees at the border (Ministry for Primary Industries, Civil Aviation Authority, Aviation Security Service, Customs, Airways) are put on hold for 12 months, Financial support for Airways with in the face of declining revenue ($70 million). Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
The Government is backing the Reserve Bank’s latest action to support the economy by reducing longer-term interest rates, meaning lower costs for businesses and mortgage holders, and a lower currency to help our exporters. The Minister of Finance has signed a memorandum of understanding and a letter of indemnity with the Reserve Bank to enable it to undertake a programme of large scale purchases of New Zealand Government bonds on the secondary market up to a value of $30 billion over the next 12 months, to reduce interest rates and inject money into the economy. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
This year’s flu vaccine campaign will be the biggest ever with 400,000 more vaccines available in 2020, compared with last year. The announcement was made this morning as Health Ministers David Clark and Julie Anne Genter launched a new COVID-19 public health campaign. Read more (beehive.govt.nz) (external link)
The Coalition Government has stepped in to protect Air New Zealand with a significant financial deal that protects essential routes and allows the company to keep operating. The Government and Air New Zealand have agreed a debt funding agreement through commercial 24-month loan facilities of up to $900 million*. The agreement also allows for the conversion of the loan to equity at the request of the Crown. Find out more on beehive.govt.nz (external link)
The New Zealand Government has further strengthened travel restrictions, closing our border to almost all travellers from 23:59 on Thursday 19 March 2020 . All affected travellers must have checked in for their flight to New Zealand by this time. Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand for: humanitarian reasons health and other essential workers citizens of Samoa and Tonga for essential travel to New Zealand the holder of a visitor visa who is the partner or dependent of a temporary work or student visa holder and who normally lives in New Zealand and is currently in New Zealand. No other foreign traveller can enter New Zealand. Returning residents and citizens must isolate themselves for 14 days upon arrival. Read the full announcement here. (external link)
The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme will be available to all businesses, organisations, and self-employed people, not just essential services. This will support workers at higher risk from COVID-19 as we move to Alert Level 3. The other criteria remain the same, including that businesses must be experiencing hardship due to COVID-19. It covers workers who are unable to work from home and need to self-isolate. This could be because they, or someone in their bubble, are sick, have come into close contact with someone with COVID-19 or are at higher risk of becoming severely sick if they contract COVID-19. The weekly rates of the scheme will remain at $585.80 for full-time workers and $350 for part-time workers. Applications for the expanded scheme open Friday 1 May. Applications received for Essential Workers Leave Support prior to the shift to Alert Level 3 will continue to be processed and approved. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link)
The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of people in New Zealand and reduce the threat of transmission of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Read more (external link)
The Government has announced changes to the rules for those arriving to New Zealand. All arrivals will now have to remain in either managed isolation or quarantine for 14 days before they can continue to their destination. New rules for people arriving to New Zealand
Government Ministers met tonight and have provided further guidance on essential services that can continue to operate after midnight tomorrow. MBIE Deputy Chief Executive Paul Stocks said the purpose of escalating New Zealand’s COVID-19 alert level to 4 was to stop the virus in its tracks and reduce contact between people. “That’s why we need as many businesses as possible to close their premises now if our one shot at beating the virus is to be successful,” Mr Stocks said. “Only the businesses absolutely essential to ensure the necessities of life, like supermarkets and pharmacies, can stay open. If in doubt, the business premises should be closed. “So unfortunately the Warehouse needs to close its shops. Leaving them open to the general public creates too high a risk of further spreading the virus. Mr Stocks says “big box” retailers like Bunnings, Placemakers and Mitre 10 can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only. “These retailers play an important part in the construction supply chain, but they cannot sell goods to the general public.” Businesses that are a critical part of the supply chain for essential services are also able to continue operating, but must do so in a way that is safe. “For example, if you make chemicals that are needed for our waste water plants, then we need you to keep operating at the minimum level required.” In addition, dairies can continue to operate, but must observe strict physical distancing rules for customers. “Dairies provide basic food items like bread and milk to people close to where they live, especially the elderly who may not be able to get to a supermarket. However, they will need to operate a strict ‘one-in one-out’ policy and they won’t be allowed to sell food prepared on the premises. “If any dairy breaks the rules, we will shut it down. If there is evidence of systemic abuse, we will remove them from the essential services list. “Food delivery services like Uber Eats and Deliver Easy pose a risk to human health. We cannot guarantee every kitchen operates strict food preparation controls or that everyone who works in a kitchen is well. “For clarity, every restaurant, café and bar must close all aspects of their operation, including delivery. “Delivery of food that is not pre-cooked will be allowed under strict health conditions. Many New Zealanders now receive their food via a delivery company and are in effect no different to a supermarket delivery option. “Most people are able to purchase alcohol at supermarkets. On that basis liquor stores are being treated as other non-essential retail outlets and must close. The only exception to this are Licensing Trust Areas where there is nowhere else to purchase alcohol. These stores must operate a ‘one-in one-out’ policy. “We are doing further work on online ordering of non-food products for home delivery to see if this type of retail can be conducted safely. We will update advice on this once further decisions are made. “COVID-19 alert level 4 is not business as usual and means there will be significant restrictions on what New Zealanders are able to purchase. However, these changes are essential to stop the spread of the virus. “We are ready to change the list if necessary. If we discover there are essential services that have not been made available we will react to that as we go.” Further details on essential services: Dairies to stay open, with “one-in one-out” rule Food delivery prohibited, except meals on wheels and delivery of food not pre-cooked Liquor stores closed, unless within a Licensing Trust Area and with “one-in one-out” rule Self-service laundries can stay open, 2 metre physical distancing to be enforced Retirement villages included as an essential service The Warehouse to close stores to the public Bunnings, Placemakers, Mitre 10 and other retailers essential to the supply chain for building and construction can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only The Tiwai Point smelter exempt from closure NZ Steel shut down in a way that allows for production to recommence easily Pulp and paper plants to shut down non-essential elements in a way that allows for production to recommence easily while maintaining essential production Methanex to remain in production, but at a scale consistent with stability of gas supply. Correction: An earlier version stated, "Evidence overseas suggests the virus has been spread via poor food hygiene practices, so it’s a real risk we have to eliminate". This evidence is unclear.
The Ministry of Health’s Director-General has confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a Dunedin school following a student testing positive for coronavirus. Read more (education.govt.nz) (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updated the media at 3:30pm Tuesday 17 March on the health response to COVID-19. Read more (Health.govt.nz) (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Wednesday 18 March on the health response to COVID-19. Read more (Health.govt.nz) (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Thursday 19 March on the health response to COVID-19.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Friday 20 March on the health response to COVID-19.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 11:00am Saturday 21 March on the health response to COVID-19.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm today. Today we have 14 new cases of COVID-19 confirmed by laboratory test in in New Zealand. This brings the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in New Zealand to a total of 66 - note, this differs from the number listed in this stand up. The correct total is 66 confirmed cases.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm. The speakers were: All of Government Controller John Ombler – update on Covid-19 national response Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health – health update Iona Holsted, Secretary for Education – education update Paul Stocks, Deputy Chief Executive MBIE – essential services update
The Government is making further support available for Kiwis wanting to look after their mental wellbeing as a result of change and uncertainty from COVID-19. Three free online tools are now available: the Mentemia app developed by All Blacks legend Sir John Kirwan a health journal app called Melon an e-therapy programme called Staying on Track . Last week the Government launched an additional two mental health support programmes Getting Through Together and Sparklers at Home – a set of wellbeing activities and resources for parents to use with children at home. Media release from Hon David Clark (external link) Mentemia (external link) Melon (external link) Staying on Track (external link)
The Government, retail banks and the Reserve Bank are today announcing a major financial support package for home owners and businesses affected by the economic impacts of COVID-19. The package will include a 6 month principal and interest payment holiday for mortgage holders and SME customers whose incomes have been affected by the economic disruption from COVID-19. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
We’ve united against Covid-19 and by continuing to work together we can earn the opportunity to move to Alert Level 2. When we move to Alert Level 2 we can leave our bubbles and reconnect with friends and family. We’ll move to Alert Level 2 when we’re confident there is no community transmission and that the disease is contained. When we do, we’ll have measures in place to track and stop any new transmission and stamp out any outbreaks. Cabinet is reviewing whether we are ready to move to Alert Level 2 on Monday 11 May. Until then, we remain at Alert Level 3. New Alert Level 2 information Overview of the Alert Level System
People over 70 and other higher-risk groups have the same rights as everyone else to go to work, to exercise and to access essential services like supermarkets and banks. While the basic rules under Alert Level 3 are the same for everybody, people over 70 and people with specific health conditions need to be especially careful. If you are at risk, talk to your employer and agree on work and leave arrangements. The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme has been expanded to all businesses, organisations, and self-employed people to support this. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link) Alert Level 3 guidance for at-risk people Information about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme
From today, you can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. Employers, employees, self-employed and people who have lost their job due to COVID-19 can all use this tool. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: Your work status (for example employee). Your situation (for example reduced or zero hours). Whether your workplace has reduced business. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. We want to ensure that everyone who is eligible receives financial support. Use COVID-19 financial support tool
There is now a free helpline service for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government-funded business support advice on what Alert Level 3 means for your business general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services HR, employee relations, and health and safety advice. To find out more call 0800 500 362 (North Island), or 0800 50 50 96 (South Island). More advice on doing business at Alert Level 3
The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of five years. Repayments are not required for the first two years. Applications will open on 12 May and be managed by Inland Revenue. More information on the announcement (external link)
The Keep New Zealand Working online recruitment tool connects job seekers directly to the employer making it quicker and easier for people to find work. The tool, now live, also provides online training courses. Use the new Keep New Zealand Working tool (external link) Other announcements to help people back into work include: 35 new employment centres across the country working with employers and job seekers under Level 3, over the phone and online. Under Level 2 face to face engagement with clients, employers and providers will begin. A Keep New Zealand Working employment service for those directly impacted by Covid-19 who are not on a main benefit. A Keep New Zealand Working fast-tracking service for those benefit applicants who need to re-engage quickly with the job market. Working in partnership with industry to provide ‘quick upskilling solutions’, for example the new free online Community Health course with NZQA Unit Standards. Media release from Minister Sepuloni (external link)
The Government has announced New Zealand will move out of Alert Level 4 lockdown at 11.59pm on Monday 27 April. We are still in Alert Level 4 until then. We will hold at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before Cabinet reviews how we are tracking and makes further decisions on 11 May. The Government’s decision today allows many businesses to get going again, and for many people to go back to work. Schools will be able to open soon after we move into Alert Level 3. At Alert Level 3 we will need to be even more vigilant. All of us will need to unite against COVID-19 by sticking to the rules. Stay home. If you are not at work, school, exercising or getting essentials then you must be at home, the same as at Alert Level 4. Work and learn from home if you can. We still want the vast majority of people working from home, and children and young people learning from home. At-risk students and staff should also stay at home, and they will be supported to do so. Early learning centres and schools will physically be open for up to Year 10 for families that need them. Make your business COVID-19 safe. COVID-19 has spread in workplaces, so the quid pro quo of being able to open is doing it in a way that doesn’t spread the virus. Stay regional. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Activities must be safe – keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Keep your bubble as small as possible. If you need to, you can expand your bubble a small amount to bring in close family, isolated people or caregivers. Wash your hands often with soap. Then dry them. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. If you are sick, stay at home and quickly seek advice from your GP or Healthline about getting a test. There is no stigma to COVID-19. We will only be successful if everyone is willing to play their part in finding it wherever it is. Businesses can use the week ahead to prepare for Alert Level 3. Any preparation should be done in line with Alert Level 4 restrictions. If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. Your staff should work from home if they can. Customers cannot come onto your premises. Unless you are a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers must stay home if they are sick. If you used PPE in your business before COVID-19, then keep using it in the same way. If you didn’t use PPE in your business before COVID-19, you don’t need it now. This is advice for retailers, manufacturers and the service industries. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. Visit health.govt.nz for more advice (external link) You must meet all other health and safety obligations. Alert Level 3 information
The New Zealand Government has temporarily closed its High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados and its Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Foreign Minister Winston Peters says. “Due to the increasing scarcity of air links in and out of Bridgetown and Yangon, and the pressure COVID-19 is placing on local health systems, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has decided to temporarily withdraw New Zealand staff and their families from these locations for health and safety reasons,” said Mr Peters. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
Anzac Day services will not go ahead this year due to the restrictions in place in response to COVID-19. This includes the National Services at Pukeahu National War Memorial Park and Atatürk Memorial. This year, we’re encouraging New Zealanders to mark Anzac Day from within your bubble instead. One way you can do this is by joining the New Zealand Defence Force and RSA's #StandAtDawn campaign. This involves standing at your letterbox, front door, lounge room, balcony, or driveway at 6am this Saturday. Learn more about the #StandAtDawn campaign (external link) This is the first time since Anzac Day services began in 1916 that New Zealanders are not able to gather nationwide to mark the anniversary. However, we will still commemorate the New Zealanders killed in war, and honour our returned servicemen and women, in other ways. Find other ways to safely commemorate Anzac Day on the Ministry for Culture and Heritage website (external link) This Saturday is Anzac Day. Supermarkets must be closed until 1pm, but they may reopen afterwards. Pharmacies may be open all day. Supermarkets will be open on Monday, which is a public holiday.
The Government has announced a new $50 million package to support the media industry through the COVID-19 pandemic. The package includes: $21.1 million to completely cut transmission fees for 6 months $16.5 million to cut by 80% contribution for NZ On Air screen content in 2020/21 $1.3 million for government departments to purchase organisation wide news service subscriptions Media support package announcement on the Beehive website (external link)
The Government and business are working together to develop a plan for how tourism will operate in a post-COVID-19 world. The tourism industry will play an important role in New Zealand’s economic recovery. Tourism New Zealand will lead the work and will collaborate with the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment, the Department of Conservation and industry stakeholders. The work will look at how New Zealand governs tourism, how it markets domestically and internationally, who it markets to and how it manages visitors when they arrive in the country. Tourism Minister's media release on the plan for the future of tourism (external link)
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has made a statement to the nation about the impact of COVID-19 on New Zealand. The government has announced a four-level Covid-19 alert system. COVID-19 alert levels [PDF, 1.5 MB] Alternative ways of working are encouraged. We all have to go about life very differently, including our work life. Employers should start alternative ways of working if possible – for example remote working, shift-based working, physical distancing within the workplace, staggered meal breaks and flexible leave arrangements. We need to be practical and sensible about this, but we do need to change our practices. If you are at high-risk, you are advised to stay at home regardless. This includes if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Why? This is an important measure to slow down the spread of the disease. Slowing down the spread of the disease is vital to protect people’s health and to ensure our health system can cope and look after New Zealanders that become sick. Employers should allow employees to work from home if they can, and start other alternative ways of working: Move to measures like shift-based working, staggered meal breaks and flexible leave arrangements Encourage physical distancing in your workplace Stop employees coming to work if they are unwell Maintain high levels of hygiene in the workplace Advise your customers and suppliers not to come in if they are sick Support staff wellbeing, particularly those people with existing medical conditions Activate business continuity plans. There is a step-by-step guide to getting your plan sorted on the business.govt.nz website: here (external link) . Information for businesses about Government financial support for wage subsidies and leave related to COVID-19 is available on the Work and Income website: here (external link) Specific information for exporters and importers, and about travel, employment, health and safety is available on the business.govt.nz website: here (external link) . Guidance for businesses about mass gatherings: here (external link) . We are asking everyone to limit your movement around the country. This means cutting non-essential domestic travel. This will help us track and contain any spread of COVID-19. Physical distancing on public transport is critical to slowing the spread – it’s about keeping a safe distance from others. On public transport, try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. It is important to cough or sneeze into your elbow. Wash and dry your hands before and after your journey. Working from home and alternative ways of working will reduce the amount of people on public transport. Keep as much space between you and others. This means staying at least 2 metres away from others, where possible. Where possible, sit in a window seat in a row by yourself. This is about slowing down the spread of the disease. This is vital to protecting people’s health and ensuring our health system can cope and look after New Zealanders that become sick. We are asking that people not undertake any non-essential travel around New Zealand. If you need to fly, maintain social distancing and wash your hands before and after your flight. Yes, but remember to wash your hands for 20 seconds before and after you have been on public transport and cough or sneeze into your elbow. If there is space on your bus or train, try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. Who is at risk? Older people often have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to this virus. Underlying medical conditions can make you more vulnerable to this virus. In particular, people with respiratory conditions, such as COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), heart conditions, high blood pressure, kidney problems and diabetes. As treatments for cancer and blood conditions effect people’s immune systems, this makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Health experts do not yet know if pregnant women are impacted by COVID-19 in the same way as other people. However, pregnant women experience changes in their bodies that may increase their risk from some infections. Aged care facilities are susceptible to rapid transmission of viruses like this. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Migrant and refugee communities are more likely to have underlying health conditions and language barriers to healthcare, which may make them more vulnerable to the effects of this virus. Read the full announcement here. (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 4pm. Speaker: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the media conference here. Transcript of the Prime Minister's media conference 4 May 2020
Home Updates Transcript of the Prime Minister's media conference 4 May 2020 --- Section Separator --- Kia ora koutou katoa. We’re in day seven of Alert Level 3. While we can take heart in recording no new cases today, the result reflects the situation that ultimately reflects the end of lockdown in Alert Level 4; not the effect of greater activity at level 3. So, despite this result, my message remains the same, as I note does the message of Dr Ashley Bloomfield: stay the course. We cannot afford to squander the good work to date when our end goal is so close and within reach. Next Monday, we will make the decision on whether or not we will move to Alert Level 2. That day represents the end of a two-week life-cycle, as it were—a period of transmission of the virus. We need every day between now and next Monday to know for sure that we succeeded in locking in the gains of level 4, recovered effectively in our waiting room of level 3, and are in the position to move down again and give New Zealanders back greater freedoms. In making our decision, we will be assessing if there have been low to no cases for several days preceding. It will mean knowing where every new case over the past two weeks has come from. It will mean ongoing evidence and confidence of no widespread community transmission. So we need to not get ahead of ourselves, stick to our bubble, and to finish the job that we’ve started. Related to this, the latest Google tracking data for the last weekend of our level 4 lockdown came out over the weekend. Overall, it shows we did exceptionally well and that, for the duration of lockdown, we maintained very consistent levels of low amounts of movement. Trips to parks and places of recreation did experience an uptick in the last week, and that is something we need to keep an eye on at level 3—just in terms of, when we are out and about, maintaining physical distancing. However, we did better than many other countries we compare ourselves to, and the ongoing commitment to physical distancing and staying at home has no doubt been the biggest contributor to our rapid drop in cases at level 4. Your efforts, New Zealand, have put us at the front of the pack, and everyone should feel very proud of that. Cabinet today discussed what Alert Level 2 would look like in the event that we move there and when we’re ready to move there. I’ll share those details with you on Thursday, once the guidance has been fully written up and we can clearly communicate that to the public and to businesses. This will provide clarity and certainty and give people time to prepare. Please note, though, as with our previous process, no decision has been made on moving out of Alert Level 3 at this stage. As we’ve done previously, you will receive clear guidance and clear signalling before any such move. In the meantime, the Government is well advanced in our plans to get New Zealand moving and grow in the wake of COVID-19. Central to those plans is the Budget in 10 days’ time. Our hard and early health response to fight COVID-19 has opened up economic opportunities. Now, as we get the economy moving again, we look to both domestic and international opportunities to make the most of the head start New Zealand has with its recovery. But I need to warn you: the Budget will continue the Government’s careful and balanced approach to running the books. With decreased revenue and the Government taking on extra debt, we are being very careful to ensure that every dollar spent helps create jobs and sets us on a path to our country rebuilding better. The finance Minister will have more to say on this in his pre-Budget speech this Thursday. One key aspect of our plan to get New Zealand moving is the work on the trans-Tasman bubble. Today, I can confirm that I’ve accepted Prime Minister Morrison’s invitation to participate via video link in the Australian National Cabinet meeting scheduled for tomorrow. The meeting will discuss a range of matters in relation to the COVID response on both sides of the Tasman, including the creation of a trans-Tasman travel bubble. I will update media on the meeting tomorrow—in fact, just after the meeting—but it is fair to say such a meeting is without precedent and highlights both what’s happened with the cooperation at a state level in Australia and then also the mutual importance of our two countries and economies to each other. Both our countries’ strong record on fighting the virus has placed us in the enviable position of being able to plan the next stage in our economic rebuild and to include trans-Tasman travel and engagement in our strategy. On to the segment loosely called “Kiwi ingenuity”, I know that the biggest agricultural event in the Southern Hemisphere, our national Fieldays, is still hoping to go ahead later this year. And this is an incredibly welcome plan that they maintain, considering the economic shot in the arm it gives our rural services sector: more than half a billion dollars in sales last year, and the flow-on that has for our regional communities, $183 million for the Waikato alone. But, like many events across the country, they’re planning to host these again only when it is safe to do so, and so that work continues. But, in the meantime, that mid-June gap in the calendar will be filled with Fieldays online—a virtual event I know the Fieldays Society has been working on for some time, and one that can bring hundreds of exhibitors together, helping connect New Zealand and international companies at a time when our borders are closed. The world wants our quality food and fibre and, perhaps now more than ever, our high quality ideas as well. OK, everyone, I’m happy to take your questions. Media: Prime Minister, with the trans-Tasman bubble, what’s the likely timing on that? You’ve always said it was quite long term. Can you give us some idea of whether it’s weeks or months away? PM: I wouldn’t say that it would be in the very, very near short term. But, look, that’s something I’m happy to update you on once I’ve had that chance to speak directly with premiers and PM Morrison, but it’s fair to say, from the conversations we’ve had to date, we have a very similar perspective of the kind of time line that both countries will want to run to. In our minds, the health of our people is incredibly important. In New Zealand, we don’t want to give away the gains we’ve made, and nor does Australia want to see any risks either, but we also see a lot of opportunity. Media: Isn’t it fair to say that there are more advantages for us than there are for them? PM: It’s fair to say there are significant advantages for New Zealand in terms of a trans-Tasman bubble—not only, of course, domestic tourism, but equally we have a flow of people travelling between both countries for business purposes, trade, and so on. So it is to our advantage. But, equally, I will say that PM Morrison has equally articulated huge advantage for New Zealand—from Australia from our travel opening up to them as well. Media: Prime Minister, what does “not the very, very near short term” mean? PM: Don’t expect this to happen in a couple of weeks’ time. As you can imagine, we need to make sure that we’re locking in the gains that all New Zealanders have helped us achieve and make sure that we have health precautions in place to make sure we do this safely and well. Media: The beaming into the Cabinet meeting tomorrow—has that ever been done before? How unprecedented is that? PM: No, I don’t believe that has been done before. We have had occasion where, I believe, Australian Prime Ministers have attended New Zealand’s Cabinet with Ministers, but, as far as I understand, we haven’t had something quite like this. In part, that’s because of the unprecedented gathering together that’s been happening within Australia as well. Media: Have you had any specific advice drawn up on this trans-Tasman bubble? Is there a draft Cabinet paper that you’ve looked at? PM: At this stage, we are working through a number of decisions around the border, relating to both the ongoing quarantine and the way that will continue to work—you will have already heard me talk about the need to resolve issues around the ongoing funding of the quarantine mechanism. We’ll need to, of course, then assess the ongoing movement of New Zealanders, and then, within that, we’re also looking at the trans-Tasman bubble. This is not an issue Cabinet has formally considered to date, but it’s really at a point at the moment where Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and myself are discussing it with our counterparts. Media: Just to confirm, the idea of it, it wouldn’t just be that they could travel here; it would actually mean they could travel here and not have 14 days’ quarantine? Because it wouldn’t make much sense if they still had to wait 14 days, would it? PM: Yeah, so it is about really considering ourselves within a bubble where we feel secure that the relative response on both sides of the Tasman gives the assurance that that won’t be required. So you can see why it is going to take us a bit of time to make sure we can do that safely. Media: Is there any hope for the winter ski season that— PM: Again, I’ll give you further updates tomorrow. At this point, I do want to just moderate expectations. But the fact that we’re even in a position as countries to have this conversation is a huge advantage to both of us. Media: [Inaudible] other Pacific nations in the trans-Tasman bubble? PM: Yeah, at the moment, we are focused on Australia, but it is fair to say that there would be, obviously, particularly advantage for our Pacific Island neighbours, but that’s a conversation we’d need to have directly with them. There is huge risk if COVID finds its way currently into the Pacific Island nations that have been untouched by COVID. So I would want us to act cautiously and in unison with the leaders of those countries. Media: How concerned are you that the actions of a minority have potentially derailed our chances if going to level 2? PM: Yeah, we are a team of five million and that means no one wants to see people let the side down. I would still note that this is not the majority, but there are a small number of people who are forgetting that any gains you’re seeing at the moment are actually from the lockdown period. We need to stay here a while longer, feel assured that we actually have this under control, and then move. People are jeopardising that at the moment by acting in the way some people did over the weekend. Media: Can you give a bit more certainty to businesses like retail and hospitality and hairdressers—we’ve spoken to one today—about whether they’ll be able to open under level 2? PM: Yeah, and so, of course, you’ll see in the Alert Level framework, then you do see that further opening up. That’s the next step. What we’ll be doing is giving further detail on that on Thursday, but, of course, top of our minds is that there are a part of the retail sector, in particular, who aren’t operating as usual—or, in the case of hairdressers, at all. We want to make sure that, when we move there, we do so safely and that, hopefully, we can stay there. Media: Prime Minister, are you expecting to be briefed on Australia’s contact-tracing app during the National Cabinet meeting tomorrow, and what’s the likelihood of New Zealand just adopting Australia’s COVIDSafe app? PM: They, of course, based their app on the TraceTogether app of Singapore, which already our officials have engaged directly with Singapore on as well. I understand Australia managed to weed out some of the specific technical issues, and so that’s why it makes sense for our officials to keep talking to one another as well. I expect contact tracing will be a topic of conversation because it’s also an opportunity for us not just to talk about transTasman travel but also our experience with COVID and the work we’re doing to manage it and the role that technology will play in that. Media: Just on the contact-tracing app, do you still remain sceptical about what it’s going to deliver, because the uptake, of course, has to be so high? PM: Yeah, and look, you know, that does not rule out us continuing to pursue technological solutions, and just over the weekend I was talking to Dr Clark again about the different options that exist in terms of technological solutions to help prompt people’s memories about their movements when we need to do so. And so we continue to do work in this space, but we’re not relying on it to deliver everything to us, because there simply is no silver bullet here. Media: On another vaguely trans-Tasman matter, the case of Behrouz Boochani, National’s immigration spokesman, Stuart Smith, said this morning on RNZ, “deeply suspect there was interference further up the ladder or influence because of Boochani’s political connections” and then referenced “political friends in New Zealand in the Green Party and the Labour Party”. So what is your response on the attack of the integrity of the immigration system and your party? PM: I think that’s offensive. I think the claims that are being made here are an insult to New Zealand’s immigration system and also to the integrity of parliamentarians. I won’t comment on the specifics of the case in question, because, of course, politicians have no role to play in it. It’s a very important distinction we have to make, and also, under the law, we’re not permitted to even speak of someone in this particular set of circumstances potential immigration status. So I’m not going to act outside of the law, but I will call out a statement which I think questions the integrity of our immigration system, which is very robust in New Zealand, and indeed, the integrity of parliamentarians. It’s wrong. Media: Is the Government considering any additional oversight measures for big financial decisions after it’s suspended the regulatory impact assessment process for COVID-19 - related decisions? PM: Of course, we have had in place the COVID-19, the epidemic select committee, which of course puts us in the camp of very few parliaments that I think have even taken that step to create oversight and accountability, and I think that’s been important, keeping in mind, of course, even with omnibus legislation we are having those referred to that select committee as well to have parliamentary oversight. Media: But, for some of the legislation, for example—what was rushed through last week—it doesn’t go to select committee; it also doesn’t have a regulatory impact assessment. There’s no modelling done on it. Is there is a case to be made, I suppose, for some oversight of some kind, however quick? PM: Well, of course, Parliament does have a chance to debate that legislation, and that was shared, albeit on tight time frames because of the need to expeditiously support small businesses, and I think there was a good understanding in Parliament of why we needed to do that. There’s also, of course, still the opportunity—as much as we’re able—to model the fiscal impacts of these decisions as much as we are able, but, of course, there is a high level of uncertainty around take-up rates, default rates, on policies regardless of how much time would have applied to debating this piece of legislation. Media: Is it acceptable that, on that small-business scheme, all we got was one press release, no supporting documentation, no financial projections, and we found out that the legislation was passed—even though it was always going to be passed, it was passed mistakenly? Is one press release enough information on something that could cost taxpayers billions of dollars? PM: Of course, the detail of this scheme is in the public domain because people need to be able to apply for it—so the detail around the terms and conditions are being made publicly available. We, of course, proactively release Cabinet papers that underpin those decisions. And, as to the matter around the legislation, there were enabling powers in the bill that primarily related to tax provisions. There were enabling provisions within that that enabled the loan scheme. You will already know our views on the way that that went through a parliamentary process. An error was made—we’ve been very open about what happened there. It is unusual. It would not usually occur were it not for the fact that Inland Revenue—unusually, relative to other departments—have an ability to draft their own legislation because of the technicalities of tax drafting. That meant that PCO, unfortunately, did table the wrong bill, and that had the enabling provisions within it. So, no, that was not acceptable, but I think that’s well understood by everyone. Media: Prime Minister, do you have an update on the amount of breaches under level 3? PM: So I have a cumulative update, and I believe I have a breakdown as at—though this is still as at 6 p.m. Sunday, and it is for a 24-hour period. So that was 593 breaches of the Civil Defence Emergency Management or Health Act; 79 were in the past—in the previous—oh, forgive me; that’s under Alert Level 3—79 were in the previous 24 hours, 154 prosecutions under Alert Level 3, and 400 warnings, 39 youth referrals. Happy to give them broken down to you—just to be assured that those are specific to Alert Level 3. Media: And what was your first reaction today when that zero figure hit your desk? PM: First I heard the zero, and then I heard the one “confirmed” and the fact that it was transferred from a “probable”. I’m a perfectionist; I want to see those numbers after we’ve been in Alert Level 3 long enough for it to be a reflection of Alert Level 3. And so, at the moment, what we’re seeing is all of the good work New Zealand has put into the lockdown. This is the waiting room. This is where we check if we’re recovering well and that we’ve got it right. We need a few more days to check we have. Media: Can I just ask: is it possible to have a trans-Tasman bubble at level 2? PM: Well, of course, some of those decisions come down to the finalisation of just how we interpret travel and so on. I’ll be giving greater clarity on that on Thursday. And, of course, it also depends a lot on what our case load is looking like and what Australia’s case load is looking like. So I wouldn’t rule that out, but, again, it’s actually going to be very much dependent on how relative to each other we’re looking and what we’re putting in at the border to give ourselves reassurance. Media: Can you navigate, in terms of—you’ve talked about us going into sort of regional lockdowns on occasion, and Australia, obviously, has different things going on in different states. So, if we ended up in a situation with a trans-Tasman bubble, would there need to be allowances for, potentially, shutting some states, some parts of the country off? Is that a manageable thing? PM: Well, actually, you’ll see that that is how they have managed some COVID management within Australia, and, you know, travel between states has been a part of their response. So, look, I see, in part, that that will have to be part of our wider conversation: is it that we treat Australia in a blanket way, or is it that we take it state by state? And that will be one of the conversations that I’m sure we’ll have. Media: Can I just ask, as well, about the Oliver Christiansen case? I’m not sure if you’re familiar with it— PM: Yes, I am. Media: —overturned by the High Court. PM: Yeah. Media: Does this legal decision change the approach that the Ministry of Health has actually been taking to these cases? PM: I do think that we need to make sure that we learn from rulings and judgments such as this. And, of course, reading the judgment, there seems to be concern that it was an automated approach taken to requests on compassionate grounds. Information that I’ve received from the Ministry of Health, though, sets out that there were 283 requests for an exemption to the conditions of isolation having been received by 30 April; that 24 exemptions were sought in cases where a relative was dying or close to dying, of which 18 were granted. So that does suggest that there has been due consideration. That is advice I’ve received from the Ministry of Health, but I’m sure that they’ll be reflecting on this judgment. Media: But, given the High Court has overturned this one, does that call into question at all, I guess, the legal basis under which these decisions are being made? PM: I think, reading the judgment, it suggests that actually it was the sense of whether or not the individual circumstances were taken into account rather than an automated process having been applied. Now, really, my expectation is that the Ministry of Health will look at that judgment and then assess the way that they’ll been applying the policy in the future. Media: Prime Minister, what’s your view on public-private partnerships like the Transmission Gully one and whether they should be used for all the big projects that are planned in the years ahead, given what’s happened with the Gully? PM: Well, look, we, of course, have seen a role for public-private partnerships in transport projects, but, again, we take each on case by case. You’ll see that we haven’t applied that same logic on some other projects, particularly within our Corrections system. So for us it really does depend on the form of infrastructure, the long-term arrangements, and governance arrangements. I’d also note, of course, that we’re working through with Transmission Gully scaling back up their operation post level 4, and that’s something that we’re having to work through with the contractors at the moment. Media: [Inaudible] allow it and dump the mess on the Government? PM: Of course, we would certainly hope that would not be the case, but I’ll leave the Ministry of Transport to continue to work through some of the issues on the ground. Media: Prime Minister, last week when we asked you about universities and paying the full amount for accommodation, you said to act with compassion. We’ve had just one example of a student where they’re paying the full amount for their room and also contributing to where they’re staying at home with their mum; so they’re having to— PM: Double up. Media: —pay twice. Are you looking to do anything? Or can you compel universities to act? PM: The Ministry of Education has intervened here, and rightly so, and they’re seeking to try and mediate a solution. One of the tricky issues is that universities often will have different arrangements for the delivery of their halls of residence. Some, for instance, are privately contracted. Some have access, for instance, to the wage subsidy, and we would have a very clear expectation in those cases of how they should be behaving. But there is a role for the Government to play to try and sort this issue out, because it will seem patently unfair to many people. Media: Are you comfortable that nurses at Waitakere Hospital say their concerns were not listened to by management, they felt ignored and bullied, and as a result patients on a virus-free ward have been put at risk? PM: I did see those reports, and it is never acceptable for anyone who is a public servant to feel bullied anywhere, and I especially would include at this time: if there are concerns, people need to feel they can freely raise them. I have seen the protocols that have been applied and questions that were raised over PPE, which they had access to but there were questions over whether it was the right PPE. The DHB have undertaken to look at that, and I’ll certainly be asking the Director-General the outcome of that. Media: Because something clearly went wrong, didn’t it, if 57 front-line health workers have had to be stood down at this very critical time? PM: So, as I understand, advice and the view of the DHB and their technical advisory team was that nurses could not move between wards if they were working on a shift with COVID patients, but that they could work on different wards on different shifts, but never at the same time. That was the view of the DHB, and that is was is being applied here. I believe the Director-General is working with the DHB to work through what has happened in this case and make sure that we are following the best advice possible. Media: Prime Minister, on tourism, there’s been a bit of a suggestion from some, including Cameron Bagrie, that school holidays could be massively shifted to kind of even out the peaks and troughs for the tourism industry—so, instead of the entire country having two weeks to go down to Queenstown, it’s staggered over several months. Has the Government considered anything like that at this point? And could you see that working? PM: Yeah, I mean, one of the things to consider is that that is a reasonable exercise for the Ministry of Education, but I don’t want to be too quick to give a response, given that it’s actually something for the Minister of Education, really, to respond to directly and to talk through all of the issues that that may come with. Media: Prime Minister, some public health experts have said that they don’t believe the Ministry of Health is listening to Māori health experts and, responding to that, associate health Minister Peeni Henare said, yes: “We’ve had this conversation with both John Whaanga … Dr Bloomfield and my colleagues, including the Prime Minister, that this needs to change [and] it needs to change urgently”. What is the Government changing, if anything, to include those Māori health experts more in the decision making? PM: Yeah, well, one thing I would just add—and I don’t think this has been in the conversation enough, and I know Minister Henare will agree with this—that, actually, we are, as you’ll hear from my answers, really leaning on the DHBs to be delivering on the ground. They’re the ones setting up the testing protocols within their rural and isolated communities. They’re the ones that need to identify whether they have those connections into marae and with our more vulnerable Māori population. And, helpfully, they are DHBs now that have more Māori representation than they have ever had. Māori have a seat at the decision-making table at a local level for the way our COVID response is run and managed, and I really want to make sure those voices are being heard, not just in the Ministry of Health. Media: Are there enough Māori voices and Māori people at the table, though? Minister Henare indicated that we’re not even close to having enough Māori at that decision-making table across the board? PM: Well, when it comes to the expert advice, listening to epidemiologists, I do rely on the Ministry of Health to bring together that expertise. And they know our expectation that that will include a wide variety of voices. They know we have an expectation, for instance, that, within our testing, we have reached out into those Māori communities, and they know our expectation that we use, for instance, our Whānau Ora navigators and all of the resource we have on the ground. We will keep driving for that though. We will have a chance to review whether or not, in the future, we’ve done everything we could have done to work with Māori to the best of our ability. Media: Prime Minister, would New Zealand add its name to the calls for Taiwan to join the WHO fully? And would we consider welcoming it to our trans-Tasman bubble if, indeed, we are successful in creating one? PM: Look, we haven’t given any consideration beyond working on the trans-Tasman bubble. We have to make sure that, whatever we do, we do it well, that we get it right, that we maintain the achievements that we’ve had to date. When it comes to wider matters relating to the WHO, I absolutely maintain that the most important thing is for us as a global community to reflect in its totality what happened, what happened domestically, what happened internationally, the WHO response, and our response collectively. There will be things to learn. This is a one-in-100-year event; it would be crazy to suggest we wouldn’t look back at those key learnings. When it comes to membership issues, though, that’s just something I wouldn’t want to comment on here and now. Media: Have you sent a present to Boris Johnson and his new baby son? PM: Not yet, but I will note that, actually, we did get from Theresa May a lovely No. 10 onesie for Neve when she arrived; so we’ll be making sure that we reciprocate. We have had a small exchange, though, over the arrival of his baby boy, in which Nurse Jenny prompted another mention by the Prime Minister. So, obviously, she remains top of his mind. Media: Prime Minister, can the tourism industry start preparing under level 2 to have domestic tourism? PM: Look, I know that that is incredibly important to domestic tourism. I know that that’s something that they’re hoping to see. I’ll be announcing on Thursday what that Alert Level framework looks like. You’ll remember that, of course, we designed the framework, put that out for publication at the beginning of our COVID response. It’s been our practice to then go back, look at our current situation, what we’ve learnt since that time, and make any adjustments based on the public health response. So that we’ll put out on Thursday, but it is fair to say I have heard not only the tourism industry but also those who have been separated regionally from family and friends. So we will be weighing all of those issues up. Media: Just a question about job losses, because we know there are going to be some. Obviously, we’re trying to prevent them, but, for the people that do lose their jobs, what services, how are you gearing up to support these people with mental health support services or like arm-around-the-shoulder type Government stuff? PM: Yep, and providing employment services, very active labour markets, will be a key part of our response. That is something you will have seen from the last Budget—we put an extra, from memory, 270 MSD staff into Work and Income because we felt we had lost that active approach to supporting people into employment. We’ve already put in place employment centre services which put employers and employees directly in contact with one another, and there are examples of where, for instance, the Ministry for Primary Industries have been working with MSD to place, for instance, people in the tourism sector into the horticultural sector. We need more of that, and that will be part of our plans going forward. Media: Is two weeks, one incubation period of COVID-19—is that long enough to really figure out whether there’s community transmission that may have been restarted by something like the parties on the weekend? PM: Yeah, a good question, and it, essentially, does give us a minimum amount of time. It does give us data that should demonstrate what’s happening with transmission when we’ve opened up and created more contact with people. So, not only does that need to sit alongside our proactive testing—you will have heard us talk about the results of that— it also then gives us a sense more generally of people’s interaction and the impact of that. Essentially, epidemiologists, obviously, suggest it’s a minimum, and many have argued for more. Media: Prime Minister, can I just ask a supp’ on— PM: Jo—very, very last one. Media: —on Pita’s question, actually. In regards to Māori experts, isn’t it a fair point to make that they want to be at the table and not just at a DHB level? Because we know that this is being treated with a more nationalised approach, and both yourself and Dr Ashley Bloomfield have talked again about the fact that Māori are the most vulnerable to this. So why not have a Māori expert there with you? PM: I guess what I would dispute is that that voice hasn’t been present. Thank you. --- Section Separator --- Kia ora koutou katoa. We’re in day seven of Alert Level 3. While we can take heart in recording no new cases today, the result reflects the situation that ultimately reflects the end of lockdown in Alert Level 4; not the effect of greater activity at level 3. So, despite this result, my message remains the same, as I note does the message of Dr Ashley Bloomfield: stay the course. We cannot afford to squander the good work to date when our end goal is so close and within reach. Next Monday, we will make the decision on whether or not we will move to Alert Level 2. That day represents the end of a two-week life-cycle, as it were—a period of transmission of the virus. We need every day between now and next Monday to know for sure that we succeeded in locking in the gains of level 4, recovered effectively in our waiting room of level 3, and are in the position to move down again and give New Zealanders back greater freedoms. In making our decision, we will be assessing if there have been low to no cases for several days preceding. It will mean knowing where every new case over the past two weeks has come from. It will mean ongoing evidence and confidence of no widespread community transmission. So we need to not get ahead of ourselves, stick to our bubble, and to finish the job that we’ve started. Related to this, the latest Google tracking data for the last weekend of our level 4 lockdown came out over the weekend. Overall, it shows we did exceptionally well and that, for the duration of lockdown, we maintained very consistent levels of low amounts of movement. Trips to parks and places of recreation did experience an uptick in the last week, and that is something we need to keep an eye on at level 3—just in terms of, when we are out and about, maintaining physical distancing. However, we did better than many other countries we compare ourselves to, and the ongoing commitment to physical distancing and staying at home has no doubt been the biggest contributor to our rapid drop in cases at level 4. Your efforts, New Zealand, have put us at the front of the pack, and everyone should feel very proud of that. Cabinet today discussed what Alert Level 2 would look like in the event that we move there and when we’re ready to move there. I’ll share those details with you on Thursday, once the guidance has been fully written up and we can clearly communicate that to the public and to businesses. This will provide clarity and certainty and give people time to prepare. Please note, though, as with our previous process, no decision has been made on moving out of Alert Level 3 at this stage. As we’ve done previously, you will receive clear guidance and clear signalling before any such move. In the meantime, the Government is well advanced in our plans to get New Zealand moving and grow in the wake of COVID-19. Central to those plans is the Budget in 10 days’ time. Our hard and early health response to fight COVID-19 has opened up economic opportunities. Now, as we get the economy moving again, we look to both domestic and international opportunities to make the most of the head start New Zealand has with its recovery. But I need to warn you: the Budget will continue the Government’s careful and balanced approach to running the books. With decreased revenue and the Government taking on extra debt, we are being very careful to ensure that every dollar spent helps create jobs and sets us on a path to our country rebuilding better. The finance Minister will have more to say on this in his pre-Budget speech this Thursday. One key aspect of our plan to get New Zealand moving is the work on the trans-Tasman bubble. Today, I can confirm that I’ve accepted Prime Minister Morrison’s invitation to participate via video link in the Australian National Cabinet meeting scheduled for tomorrow. The meeting will discuss a range of matters in relation to the COVID response on both sides of the Tasman, including the creation of a trans-Tasman travel bubble. I will update media on the meeting tomorrow—in fact, just after the meeting—but it is fair to say such a meeting is without precedent and highlights both what’s happened with the cooperation at a state level in Australia and then also the mutual importance of our two countries and economies to each other. Both our countries’ strong record on fighting the virus has placed us in the enviable position of being able to plan the next stage in our economic rebuild and to include trans-Tasman travel and engagement in our strategy. On to the segment loosely called “Kiwi ingenuity”, I know that the biggest agricultural event in the Southern Hemisphere, our national Fieldays, is still hoping to go ahead later this year. And this is an incredibly welcome plan that they maintain, considering the economic shot in the arm it gives our rural services sector: more than half a billion dollars in sales last year, and the flow-on that has for our regional communities, $183 million for the Waikato alone. But, like many events across the country, they’re planning to host these again only when it is safe to do so, and so that work continues. But, in the meantime, that mid-June gap in the calendar will be filled with Fieldays online—a virtual event I know the Fieldays Society has been working on for some time, and one that can bring hundreds of exhibitors together, helping connect New Zealand and international companies at a time when our borders are closed. The world wants our quality food and fibre and, perhaps now more than ever, our high quality ideas as well. OK, everyone, I’m happy to take your questions. --- Section Separator --- Media: Prime Minister, with the trans-Tasman bubble, what’s the likely timing on that? You’ve always said it was quite long term. Can you give us some idea of whether it’s weeks or months away? PM: I wouldn’t say that it would be in the very, very near short term. But, look, that’s something I’m happy to update you on once I’ve had that chance to speak directly with premiers and PM Morrison, but it’s fair to say, from the conversations we’ve had to date, we have a very similar perspective of the kind of time line that both countries will want to run to. In our minds, the health of our people is incredibly important. In New Zealand, we don’t want to give away the gains we’ve made, and nor does Australia want to see any risks either, but we also see a lot of opportunity. Media: Isn’t it fair to say that there are more advantages for us than there are for them? PM: It’s fair to say there are significant advantages for New Zealand in terms of a trans-Tasman bubble—not only, of course, domestic tourism, but equally we have a flow of people travelling between both countries for business purposes, trade, and so on. So it is to our advantage. But, equally, I will say that PM Morrison has equally articulated huge advantage for New Zealand—from Australia from our travel opening up to them as well. Media: Prime Minister, what does “not the very, very near short term” mean? PM: Don’t expect this to happen in a couple of weeks’ time. As you can imagine, we need to make sure that we’re locking in the gains that all New Zealanders have helped us achieve and make sure that we have health precautions in place to make sure we do this safely and well. Media: The beaming into the Cabinet meeting tomorrow—has that ever been done before? How unprecedented is that? PM: No, I don’t believe that has been done before. We have had occasion where, I believe, Australian Prime Ministers have attended New Zealand’s Cabinet with Ministers, but, as far as I understand, we haven’t had something quite like this. In part, that’s because of the unprecedented gathering together that’s been happening within Australia as well. Media: Have you had any specific advice drawn up on this trans-Tasman bubble? Is there a draft Cabinet paper that you’ve looked at? PM: At this stage, we are working through a number of decisions around the border, relating to both the ongoing quarantine and the way that will continue to work—you will have already heard me talk about the need to resolve issues around the ongoing funding of the quarantine mechanism. We’ll need to, of course, then assess the ongoing movement of New Zealanders, and then, within that, we’re also looking at the trans-Tasman bubble. This is not an issue Cabinet has formally considered to date, but it’s really at a point at the moment where Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and myself are discussing it with our counterparts. Media: Just to confirm, the idea of it, it wouldn’t just be that they could travel here; it would actually mean they could travel here and not have 14 days’ quarantine? Because it wouldn’t make much sense if they still had to wait 14 days, would it? PM: Yeah, so it is about really considering ourselves within a bubble where we feel secure that the relative response on both sides of the Tasman gives the assurance that that won’t be required. So you can see why it is going to take us a bit of time to make sure we can do that safely. Media: Is there any hope for the winter ski season that— PM: Again, I’ll give you further updates tomorrow. At this point, I do want to just moderate expectations. But the fact that we’re even in a position as countries to have this conversation is a huge advantage to both of us. Media: [Inaudible] other Pacific nations in the trans-Tasman bubble? PM: Yeah, at the moment, we are focused on Australia, but it is fair to say that there would be, obviously, particularly advantage for our Pacific Island neighbours, but that’s a conversation we’d need to have directly with them. There is huge risk if COVID finds its way currently into the Pacific Island nations that have been untouched by COVID. So I would want us to act cautiously and in unison with the leaders of those countries. Media: How concerned are you that the actions of a minority have potentially derailed our chances if going to level 2? PM: Yeah, we are a team of five million and that means no one wants to see people let the side down. I would still note that this is not the majority, but there are a small number of people who are forgetting that any gains you’re seeing at the moment are actually from the lockdown period. We need to stay here a while longer, feel assured that we actually have this under control, and then move. People are jeopardising that at the moment by acting in the way some people did over the weekend. Media: Can you give a bit more certainty to businesses like retail and hospitality and hairdressers—we’ve spoken to one today—about whether they’ll be able to open under level 2? PM: Yeah, and so, of course, you’ll see in the Alert Level framework, then you do see that further opening up. That’s the next step. What we’ll be doing is giving further detail on that on Thursday, but, of course, top of our minds is that there are a part of the retail sector, in particular, who aren’t operating as usual—or, in the case of hairdressers, at all. We want to make sure that, when we move there, we do so safely and that, hopefully, we can stay there. Media: Prime Minister, are you expecting to be briefed on Australia’s contact-tracing app during the National Cabinet meeting tomorrow, and what’s the likelihood of New Zealand just adopting Australia’s COVIDSafe app? PM: They, of course, based their app on the TraceTogether app of Singapore, which already our officials have engaged directly with Singapore on as well. I understand Australia managed to weed out some of the specific technical issues, and so that’s why it makes sense for our officials to keep talking to one another as well. I expect contact tracing will be a topic of conversation because it’s also an opportunity for us not just to talk about transTasman travel but also our experience with COVID and the work we’re doing to manage it and the role that technology will play in that. Media: Just on the contact-tracing app, do you still remain sceptical about what it’s going to deliver, because the uptake, of course, has to be so high? PM: Yeah, and look, you know, that does not rule out us continuing to pursue technological solutions, and just over the weekend I was talking to Dr Clark again about the different options that exist in terms of technological solutions to help prompt people’s memories about their movements when we need to do so. And so we continue to do work in this space, but we’re not relying on it to deliver everything to us, because there simply is no silver bullet here. Media: On another vaguely trans-Tasman matter, the case of Behrouz Boochani, National’s immigration spokesman, Stuart Smith, said this morning on RNZ, “deeply suspect there was interference further up the ladder or influence because of Boochani’s political connections” and then referenced “political friends in New Zealand in the Green Party and the Labour Party”. So what is your response on the attack of the integrity of the immigration system and your party? PM: I think that’s offensive. I think the claims that are being made here are an insult to New Zealand’s immigration system and also to the integrity of parliamentarians. I won’t comment on the specifics of the case in question, because, of course, politicians have no role to play in it. It’s a very important distinction we have to make, and also, under the law, we’re not permitted to even speak of someone in this particular set of circumstances potential immigration status. So I’m not going to act outside of the law, but I will call out a statement which I think questions the integrity of our immigration system, which is very robust in New Zealand, and indeed, the integrity of parliamentarians. It’s wrong. Media: Is the Government considering any additional oversight measures for big financial decisions after it’s suspended the regulatory impact assessment process for COVID-19 - related decisions? PM: Of course, we have had in place the COVID-19, the epidemic select committee, which of course puts us in the camp of very few parliaments that I think have even taken that step to create oversight and accountability, and I think that’s been important, keeping in mind, of course, even with omnibus legislation we are having those referred to that select committee as well to have parliamentary oversight. Media: But, for some of the legislation, for example—what was rushed through last week—it doesn’t go to select committee; it also doesn’t have a regulatory impact assessment. There’s no modelling done on it. Is there is a case to be made, I suppose, for some oversight of some kind, however quick? PM: Well, of course, Parliament does have a chance to debate that legislation, and that was shared, albeit on tight time frames because of the need to expeditiously support small businesses, and I think there was a good understanding in Parliament of why we needed to do that. There’s also, of course, still the opportunity—as much as we’re able—to model the fiscal impacts of these decisions as much as we are able, but, of course, there is a high level of uncertainty around take-up rates, default rates, on policies regardless of how much time would have applied to debating this piece of legislation. Media: Is it acceptable that, on that small-business scheme, all we got was one press release, no supporting documentation, no financial projections, and we found out that the legislation was passed—even though it was always going to be passed, it was passed mistakenly? Is one press release enough information on something that could cost taxpayers billions of dollars? PM: Of course, the detail of this scheme is in the public domain because people need to be able to apply for it—so the detail around the terms and conditions are being made publicly available. We, of course, proactively release Cabinet papers that underpin those decisions. And, as to the matter around the legislation, there were enabling powers in the bill that primarily related to tax provisions. There were enabling provisions within that that enabled the loan scheme. You will already know our views on the way that that went through a parliamentary process. An error was made—we’ve been very open about what happened there. It is unusual. It would not usually occur were it not for the fact that Inland Revenue—unusually, relative to other departments—have an ability to draft their own legislation because of the technicalities of tax drafting. That meant that PCO, unfortunately, did table the wrong bill, and that had the enabling provisions within it. So, no, that was not acceptable, but I think that’s well understood by everyone. Media: Prime Minister, do you have an update on the amount of breaches under level 3? PM: So I have a cumulative update, and I believe I have a breakdown as at—though this is still as at 6 p.m. Sunday, and it is for a 24-hour period. So that was 593 breaches of the Civil Defence Emergency Management or Health Act; 79 were in the past—in the previous—oh, forgive me; that’s under Alert Level 3—79 were in the previous 24 hours, 154 prosecutions under Alert Level 3, and 400 warnings, 39 youth referrals. Happy to give them broken down to you—just to be assured that those are specific to Alert Level 3. Media: And what was your first reaction today when that zero figure hit your desk? PM: First I heard the zero, and then I heard the one “confirmed” and the fact that it was transferred from a “probable”. I’m a perfectionist; I want to see those numbers after we’ve been in Alert Level 3 long enough for it to be a reflection of Alert Level 3. And so, at the moment, what we’re seeing is all of the good work New Zealand has put into the lockdown. This is the waiting room. This is where we check if we’re recovering well and that we’ve got it right. We need a few more days to check we have. Media: Can I just ask: is it possible to have a trans-Tasman bubble at level 2? PM: Well, of course, some of those decisions come down to the finalisation of just how we interpret travel and so on. I’ll be giving greater clarity on that on Thursday. And, of course, it also depends a lot on what our case load is looking like and what Australia’s case load is looking like. So I wouldn’t rule that out, but, again, it’s actually going to be very much dependent on how relative to each other we’re looking and what we’re putting in at the border to give ourselves reassurance. Media: Can you navigate, in terms of—you’ve talked about us going into sort of regional lockdowns on occasion, and Australia, obviously, has different things going on in different states. So, if we ended up in a situation with a trans-Tasman bubble, would there need to be allowances for, potentially, shutting some states, some parts of the country off? Is that a manageable thing? PM: Well, actually, you’ll see that that is how they have managed some COVID management within Australia, and, you know, travel between states has been a part of their response. So, look, I see, in part, that that will have to be part of our wider conversation: is it that we treat Australia in a blanket way, or is it that we take it state by state? And that will be one of the conversations that I’m sure we’ll have. Media: Can I just ask, as well, about the Oliver Christiansen case? I’m not sure if you’re familiar with it— PM: Yes, I am. Media: —overturned by the High Court. PM: Yeah. Media: Does this legal decision change the approach that the Ministry of Health has actually been taking to these cases? PM: I do think that we need to make sure that we learn from rulings and judgments such as this. And, of course, reading the judgment, there seems to be concern that it was an automated approach taken to requests on compassionate grounds. Information that I’ve received from the Ministry of Health, though, sets out that there were 283 requests for an exemption to the conditions of isolation having been received by 30 April; that 24 exemptions were sought in cases where a relative was dying or close to dying, of which 18 were granted. So that does suggest that there has been due consideration. That is advice I’ve received from the Ministry of Health, but I’m sure that they’ll be reflecting on this judgment. Media: But, given the High Court has overturned this one, does that call into question at all, I guess, the legal basis under which these decisions are being made? PM: I think, reading the judgment, it suggests that actually it was the sense of whether or not the individual circumstances were taken into account rather than an automated process having been applied. Now, really, my expectation is that the Ministry of Health will look at that judgment and then assess the way that they’ll been applying the policy in the future. Media: Prime Minister, what’s your view on public-private partnerships like the Transmission Gully one and whether they should be used for all the big projects that are planned in the years ahead, given what’s happened with the Gully? PM: Well, look, we, of course, have seen a role for public-private partnerships in transport projects, but, again, we take each on case by case. You’ll see that we haven’t applied that same logic on some other projects, particularly within our Corrections system. So for us it really does depend on the form of infrastructure, the long-term arrangements, and governance arrangements. I’d also note, of course, that we’re working through with Transmission Gully scaling back up their operation post level 4, and that’s something that we’re having to work through with the contractors at the moment. Media: [Inaudible] allow it and dump the mess on the Government? PM: Of course, we would certainly hope that would not be the case, but I’ll leave the Ministry of Transport to continue to work through some of the issues on the ground. Media: Prime Minister, last week when we asked you about universities and paying the full amount for accommodation, you said to act with compassion. We’ve had just one example of a student where they’re paying the full amount for their room and also contributing to where they’re staying at home with their mum; so they’re having to— PM: Double up. Media: —pay twice. Are you looking to do anything? Or can you compel universities to act? PM: The Ministry of Education has intervened here, and rightly so, and they’re seeking to try and mediate a solution. One of the tricky issues is that universities often will have different arrangements for the delivery of their halls of residence. Some, for instance, are privately contracted. Some have access, for instance, to the wage subsidy, and we would have a very clear expectation in those cases of how they should be behaving. But there is a role for the Government to play to try and sort this issue out, because it will seem patently unfair to many people. Media: Are you comfortable that nurses at Waitakere Hospital say their concerns were not listened to by management, they felt ignored and bullied, and as a result patients on a virus-free ward have been put at risk? PM: I did see those reports, and it is never acceptable for anyone who is a public servant to feel bullied anywhere, and I especially would include at this time: if there are concerns, people need to feel they can freely raise them. I have seen the protocols that have been applied and questions that were raised over PPE, which they had access to but there were questions over whether it was the right PPE. The DHB have undertaken to look at that, and I’ll certainly be asking the Director-General the outcome of that. Media: Because something clearly went wrong, didn’t it, if 57 front-line health workers have had to be stood down at this very critical time? PM: So, as I understand, advice and the view of the DHB and their technical advisory team was that nurses could not move between wards if they were working on a shift with COVID patients, but that they could work on different wards on different shifts, but never at the same time. That was the view of the DHB, and that is was is being applied here. I believe the Director-General is working with the DHB to work through what has happened in this case and make sure that we are following the best advice possible. Media: Prime Minister, on tourism, there’s been a bit of a suggestion from some, including Cameron Bagrie, that school holidays could be massively shifted to kind of even out the peaks and troughs for the tourism industry—so, instead of the entire country having two weeks to go down to Queenstown, it’s staggered over several months. Has the Government considered anything like that at this point? And could you see that working? PM: Yeah, I mean, one of the things to consider is that that is a reasonable exercise for the Ministry of Education, but I don’t want to be too quick to give a response, given that it’s actually something for the Minister of Education, really, to respond to directly and to talk through all of the issues that that may come with. Media: Prime Minister, some public health experts have said that they don’t believe the Ministry of Health is listening to Māori health experts and, responding to that, associate health Minister Peeni Henare said, yes: “We’ve had this conversation with both John Whaanga … Dr Bloomfield and my colleagues, including the Prime Minister, that this needs to change [and] it needs to change urgently”. What is the Government changing, if anything, to include those Māori health experts more in the decision making? PM: Yeah, well, one thing I would just add—and I don’t think this has been in the conversation enough, and I know Minister Henare will agree with this—that, actually, we are, as you’ll hear from my answers, really leaning on the DHBs to be delivering on the ground. They’re the ones setting up the testing protocols within their rural and isolated communities. They’re the ones that need to identify whether they have those connections into marae and with our more vulnerable Māori population. And, helpfully, they are DHBs now that have more Māori representation than they have ever had. Māori have a seat at the decision-making table at a local level for the way our COVID response is run and managed, and I really want to make sure those voices are being heard, not just in the Ministry of Health. Media: Are there enough Māori voices and Māori people at the table, though? Minister Henare indicated that we’re not even close to having enough Māori at that decision-making table across the board? PM: Well, when it comes to the expert advice, listening to epidemiologists, I do rely on the Ministry of Health to bring together that expertise. And they know our expectation that that will include a wide variety of voices. They know we have an expectation, for instance, that, within our testing, we have reached out into those Māori communities, and they know our expectation that we use, for instance, our Whānau Ora navigators and all of the resource we have on the ground. We will keep driving for that though. We will have a chance to review whether or not, in the future, we’ve done everything we could have done to work with Māori to the best of our ability. Media: Prime Minister, would New Zealand add its name to the calls for Taiwan to join the WHO fully? And would we consider welcoming it to our trans-Tasman bubble if, indeed, we are successful in creating one? PM: Look, we haven’t given any consideration beyond working on the trans-Tasman bubble. We have to make sure that, whatever we do, we do it well, that we get it right, that we maintain the achievements that we’ve had to date. When it comes to wider matters relating to the WHO, I absolutely maintain that the most important thing is for us as a global community to reflect in its totality what happened, what happened domestically, what happened internationally, the WHO response, and our response collectively. There will be things to learn. This is a one-in-100-year event; it would be crazy to suggest we wouldn’t look back at those key learnings. When it comes to membership issues, though, that’s just something I wouldn’t want to comment on here and now. Media: Have you sent a present to Boris Johnson and his new baby son? PM: Not yet, but I will note that, actually, we did get from Theresa May a lovely No. 10 onesie for Neve when she arrived; so we’ll be making sure that we reciprocate. We have had a small exchange, though, over the arrival of his baby boy, in which Nurse Jenny prompted another mention by the Prime Minister. So, obviously, she remains top of his mind. Media: Prime Minister, can the tourism industry start preparing under level 2 to have domestic tourism? PM: Look, I know that that is incredibly important to domestic tourism. I know that that’s something that they’re hoping to see. I’ll be announcing on Thursday what that Alert Level framework looks like. You’ll remember that, of course, we designed the framework, put that out for publication at the beginning of our COVID response. It’s been our practice to then go back, look at our current situation, what we’ve learnt since that time, and make any adjustments based on the public health response. So that we’ll put out on Thursday, but it is fair to say I have heard not only the tourism industry but also those who have been separated regionally from family and friends. So we will be weighing all of those issues up. Media: Just a question about job losses, because we know there are going to be some. Obviously, we’re trying to prevent them, but, for the people that do lose their jobs, what services, how are you gearing up to support these people with mental health support services or like arm-around-the-shoulder type Government stuff? PM: Yep, and providing employment services, very active labour markets, will be a key part of our response. That is something you will have seen from the last Budget—we put an extra, from memory, 270 MSD staff into Work and Income because we felt we had lost that active approach to supporting people into employment. We’ve already put in place employment centre services which put employers and employees directly in contact with one another, and there are examples of where, for instance, the Ministry for Primary Industries have been working with MSD to place, for instance, people in the tourism sector into the horticultural sector. We need more of that, and that will be part of our plans going forward. Media: Is two weeks, one incubation period of COVID-19—is that long enough to really figure out whether there’s community transmission that may have been restarted by something like the parties on the weekend? PM: Yeah, a good question, and it, essentially, does give us a minimum amount of time. It does give us data that should demonstrate what’s happening with transmission when we’ve opened up and created more contact with people. So, not only does that need to sit alongside our proactive testing—you will have heard us talk about the results of that— it also then gives us a sense more generally of people’s interaction and the impact of that. Essentially, epidemiologists, obviously, suggest it’s a minimum, and many have argued for more. Media: Prime Minister, can I just ask a supp’ on— PM: Jo—very, very last one. Media: —on Pita’s question, actually. In regards to Māori experts, isn’t it a fair point to make that they want to be at the table and not just at a DHB level? Because we know that this is being treated with a more nationalised approach, and both yourself and Dr Ashley Bloomfield have talked again about the fact that Māori are the most vulnerable to this. So why not have a Māori expert there with you? PM: I guess what I would dispute is that that voice hasn’t been present. Thank you. --- Section Separator --- Transcript of the Prime Minister's media conference 4 May 2020
Mosques and other faith-based venues must remain closed during Alert Levels 3 and 4, although mosque workers may go into the mosque to work, for example, to conduct an online service. You and your bubble can come together to mark religious events such as Ramadan. At Alert Level 3, you can expand your bubble to include close family and caregivers, or to support isolated people. However, you must keep your bubble small and exclusive at all times. You are encouraged to hold iftar (breaking the fast at sunset) and isha (the last prayers of the day) within your bubble. If Eid (the end of Ramadan) occurs during Alert Level 3, you must remain in your household bubble. Advice to religious communities Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. Customers cannot enter the premises. Meat should either be collected outside the store, or delivered direct to the home. Different rules apply at Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 4. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 3, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend the funeral.
The Government is supporting New Zealanders to stay in their rental properties with a six month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having their tenancies terminated, says the Housing Minister Dr Megan Woods. This includes: Immediate freeze on rent increases Tenancies will not be terminated during the lock-down period, unless the parties agree, or in limited circumstances Tenants who had previously given notice can stay in their if they need to stay in the tenancy during the lock-down period Tenants will still be able to terminate their tenancy as normal, if they wish Tenancy termination measures apply for 3 months, and this may be extended if necessary. Read more on beehive.govt.nz (external link)
The New Zealand Government is now advising New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel overseas due to the outbreak of COVID-19, associated health risks and travel restrictions. There may be a higher risk of contracting COVID-19 overseas. You may come in contact with more people than usual, including during long-haul flights and in crowded airports. Health care systems in some countries may come under strain and may not be as well-equipped as New Zealand’s or have the capacity to support foreigners. Read more (SafeTravel.govt.nz) (external link)
A State of National Emergency has been declared across the country as the Government pulls out all the stops to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Watch the Prime Minister's update on rnz.co.nz (external link)
Many tertiary programmes are being delivered online in response to COVID-19. This new $20 million fund will help eligible tertiary students continue their study via online distance learning. Students should continue to contact their tertiary providers to discuss the support they need. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link)
Associate Health and Whānau Ora Minister Peeni Henare has today announced the Government’s plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. “The welfare of our whanau is at the heart of our response to COVID-19 and we will reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support this community outreach,” Māori Development Minister Hon Nanaia Mahuta said. The steps taken by Te Puni Kokiri include: a refocus of TPK Regional Hubs to support whānau, hapu and iwi. partnering with whānau, hapū, iwi and communities to give them the tools and resources they need to support a targeted response. providing infrastructure and technology support to our communities. supporting Māori health providers to enable their clinical expertise to reach whānau Māori and communities and assist in assessing the psychosocial needs within the community and co-ordinate with necessary tikanga related support. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link)
A new package of tax reforms will be pushed through Parliament today to assist small businesses. Revenue Minister Stuart Nash says the COVID-19 Response (Taxation and other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Bill gives businesses more than $3 billion in tax refunds as they deal with the economic impact of the virus. Tax reform announcement on the Beehive website (external link)
The Government has announced a support package to help tertiary education students continue their studies. The package includes help to cover extra costs. It does this by increasing the student loan amount available for course-related costs for full-time students. The loan amount available is increased from $1,000 to $2,000, on a temporary basis. The package continues support payments for students unable to study online for up to 8 weeks The package makes technical changes to ensure that if students: receive partial tuition fee refunds in 2020 because their course has been discontinued due to COVID-19, this will not affect their future entitlement to student loans are unable to complete a course of study in 2020 due to COVID-19, this will not affect their entitlement to Fees Free tertiary study. Media release from Hon Chris Hipkins, Minister of Education (external link)
Treasury has released a new report describing a number of scenarios showing the potential impact of COVID-19 on the New Zealand economy. The scenarios consider paths that the economy may take depending on the time spent at different COVID-19 Alert Levels. It also considers the impact of additional fiscal support. Economic scenarios report
New Zealand has moved up to COVID-19 Alert Level 3 – Restrict, for the next 48 hours before moving into Level 4 – Eliminate, as New Zealand escalates its response to stop the virus in its tracks, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today. New Zealand moved up to COVID-19 Alert Level 3 – Restrict New Zealand to move up to COVID-19 Alert Level 4 – Eliminate, from 11:59 pm, 25 March 2020 2-staged approach to give people and businesses time to prepare Level 3, from Tuesday, 24 March: Non-essential businesses must close All events and gatherings must be cancelled Schools will only open for children of essential workers. They will close completely when we move to Level 4 Workplaces must implement alternative working with everyone who can to work from home No discretionary domestic air travel between regions Public transport for people undertaking essential services and transport of freight only Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) You can watch the full announcement on our Facebook page (external link) . Read more about what the current Level means for you Find out about the COVID-19 Alert Levels COVID-19 alert levels table [PDF, 1.5 MB]
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is speaking this afternoon after putting the country on alert yesterday for a lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. Watch the livestream (external link) Transcript of the Prime Minister's media update 24 March 2020
Urgent legislation has been passed to support the package of economic and social measures needed to recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. The main measures contained in this Bill are: Restoring building depreciation Increasing the provisional tax threshold from $2,500 to $5,000 Allowing immediate low-value asset write-offs Bringing forward broader R&D refundability Allowing use of money interest to be waived Allowing greater information sharing Allowing more access to the in-work tax credit. Read more on Beehive Website (external link)
The Government is protecting the integrity of New Zealand businesses correctly accessing the wage subsidy by prioritising the audit process for businesses where complaints have been laid. The scheme has paid out $10.4 billion to protect jobs and support the incomes of over 1.6 million New Zealanders. While the audit process will identify cases that may require investigation, the vast majority of businesses are doing the right thing and don't need to worry about the audit process. Read the media statement on the Beehive website (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 116 updates 01 May 2020 Find out what financial support you could access. 30 Apr 2020 A significant package of tax reforms will be pushed through all stages in Parliament today to throw a cash flow lifeline to small to medium enterprises (SMEs). 30 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 29 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 28 Apr 2020 The Ministry for Social Development has announced several initiatives to help connect employers and job seekers. 28 Apr 2020 The Government has launched a new helpline to provide all NZ businesses with advice and to connect them with additional support. 28 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 27 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 26 Apr 2020 Guidance around what Alert Level 3 means for people over 70 and other higher-risk groups is now available. 25 Apr 2020 The Government has extended the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme ahead of the move to Alert Level 3.
Displaying 101-110 of 116 updates 20 Mar 2020 20 Mar 2020 The Govt has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be first helped. 19 Mar 2020 19 Mar 2020 The Government has reinforced its commitment to protecting the health of New Zealanders through the cancellation of indoor events with more than 100 people. 19 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Thursday 19 March on the health response to COVID-19. 19 Mar 2020 Transport Minister Phil Twyford outlined the first tranche of the $600 million aviation sector relief package which was announced earlier this week. 18 Mar 2020 New Zealand has eight new cases of COVID-19, all overseas travel related. 18 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Wednesday 18 March on the health response to COVID-19. 18 Mar 2020 This year’s flu vaccine campaign will be the biggest ever with 400,000 more vaccines available in 2020, compared with last year. 18 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health’s Director-General has confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a Dunedin school following a student testing positive for coronavirus.
Displaying 111-116 of 116 updates 17 Mar 2020 Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders. 17 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updated the media at 3:30pm Tuesday 17 March on the health response to COVID-19. 17 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government is advising New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel overseas due to the outbreak of COVID-19. 17 Mar 2020 The Government’s commitment to protecting our health is being backed by an initial dedicated $500 million fund to strengthen our health services. 16 Mar 2020 The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. 14 Mar 2020 The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of New Zealanders.
Displaying 21-30 of 116 updates 24 Apr 2020 The Government is prioritising the audit process for businesses where complaints have been laid. 24 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 24 Apr 2020 You and your bubble can come together to mark religious events such as Ramadan. 23 Apr 2020 The Government has announced a new $50 million package to support the media industry through the COVID-19 pandemic. 23 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 22 Apr 2020 It is okay to go into your business premises now to do limited, safe activities to begin preparing for Alert Level 3. 22 Apr 2020 The government is asking people to stay home for Anzac Day to reduce transmission of COVID-19. 22 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 21 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Apr 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 4 lockdown at 11.59pm on Monday 27 April.
Displaying 31-40 of 116 updates 20 Apr 2020 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 16 Apr 2020 The Government has released more information on how Alert Level 3 will work. 16 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Apr 2020 The Government has announced a set of new relief measures for small and medium-sized businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic. 15 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 15 Apr 2020 The Government is making further support available for Kiwis wanting to look after their mental wellbeing as a result of change and uncertainty from COVID-19. 14 Apr 2020 The Government has announced a support package to help tertiary education students to continue their studies. 14 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 41-50 of 116 updates 14 Apr 2020 Treasury has released a new report describing a number of scenarios showing the potential impact of COVID-19 on the New Zealand economy. 13 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 11 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 10 Apr 2020 Supermarkets will be closed on Good Friday, but some will be open on Easter Sunday. 10 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 09 Apr 2020 All travellers entering New Zealand from midnight 9 April 2020 are required to undergo fourteen days of managed isolation. 09 Apr 2020 Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. 09 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 08 Apr 2020 The Government and business are working together to develop a plan for how tourism will operate in a post-COVID-19 world.
Displaying 51-60 of 116 updates 08 Apr 2020 Preparations are well underway to support schools and students with distance-learning when term 2 begins on 15 April. 08 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers at 1pm and 3pm today. 07 Apr 2020 The Getting Through Together campaign shares ways that New Zealanders can cope with the stress of COVID-19. 07 Apr 2020 A new response package for Pacific communities and led by Pacific people will help as they face the COVID-19 pandemic. 07 Apr 2020 The Ministry of Health is seeking expressions of interest from health and care support workers who are looking for paid work. 07 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Apr 2020 Find employers who have received payments under the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme through a new employer search tool. 06 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 05 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 04 Apr 2020 The Director General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, has issued additional guidance on the rules during Alert Level 4.
Displaying 71-80 of 116 updates 31 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. 31 Mar 2020 There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 31 March at 1.30pm, followed by one from the Prime Minister at 3pm. 31 Mar 2020 Simple guidance is now available for people in New Zealand to keep themselves and others safe while doing their supermarket shop. 31 Mar 2020 30 Mar 2020 Businesses can sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. 30 Mar 2020 Two media briefings took place today from the All-of-Government COVID-19 National Response. You can watch both briefings below. 30 Mar 2020 New Zealand Government launches new way for people to keep up-to-date with how we're uniting against COVID-19. 29 Mar 2020 The Prime Minister and Director-General of Health announced New Zealand's first death linked to COVID-19 at a media briefing at Parliament on Sunday 29 March. 28 Mar 2020 The Government has temporarily removed tariffs on all medical and hygiene imports needed for the COVID-19 response. 28 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health has released new guidance on protective equipment for people in essential jobs that may require physical or close contact.
Displaying 81-90 of 116 updates 27 Mar 2020 The Government has made changes to the wage subsidy scheme to help keep businesses and workers connected during this unprecedented time. 26 Mar 2020 To ensure everybody continues to have access to the prescription medication they need, PHARMAC are temporarily changing how pharmacists can fill prescriptions. 26 Mar 2020 Extra funding for community groups and social sector services to ensure they can provide essential support to communities. 25 Mar 2020 Urgent legislation has been passed to support the package of economic and social measures needed to recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. 25 Mar 2020 Info about childcare arrangements for children of essential workers, and self-isolation advice for those with shared custody agreements 25 Mar 2020 The Government is supporting rental tenancies with 6 month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having their tenancies terminated 25 Mar 2020 A State of National Emergency has been declared across the country as the Government pulls out all the stops to curtail the spread of COVID-19. 24 Mar 2020 24 Mar 2020 The Government, retail banks and the Reserve Bank are today announcing a major financial support package for home owners and businesses. 24 Mar 2020 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is speaking this afternoon after putting the country on alert yesterday for a lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19.
Displaying 91-100 of 116 updates 24 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm. 24 Mar 2020 Minister Phil Twyford announced details of the support package to keep key air freight moving and ensure NZ retains access to essential goods during Level 4. 23 Mar 2020 We have moved to Alert Level 3, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today. 23 Mar 2020 The Government is backing the Reserve Bank’s latest action to support the economy by reducing longer-term interest rates. 22 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm, 22 March 2020 22 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government has temporarily closed its High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados and its Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 22 Mar 2020 Minister Peeni Henare has today announced the Government’s plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. 21 Mar 2020 21 Mar 2020 20 Mar 2020
Home Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We don’t use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. No need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first three parts of the IP address of the device the pages accessed on our site and the links clicked on the date and time the site was visited the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this site the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on the device used the type of web browser used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies don’t collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. On 25 March 2020, the Government declared a state of national emergency. Along with a range of other special powers, a state of national emergency triggers the operation of the Civil Defence National Emergencies (Information Sharing) Code 2013 under the Privacy Act 1993. This gives agencies the authority to collect, use or disclose personal information during a state of national emergency. Certain criteria need to be met for agencies to be able to collect, use or disclose personal information. For example, it must be for purposes directly related to the emergency. The Privacy Commissioner on personal information during a state of national emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We don’t use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- No need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first three parts of the IP address of the device the pages accessed on our site and the links clicked on the date and time the site was visited the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this site the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on the device used the type of web browser used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) --- Section Separator --- This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies don’t collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- On 25 March 2020, the Government declared a state of national emergency. Along with a range of other special powers, a state of national emergency triggers the operation of the Civil Defence National Emergencies (Information Sharing) Code 2013 under the Privacy Act 1993. This gives agencies the authority to collect, use or disclose personal information during a state of national emergency. Certain criteria need to be met for agencies to be able to collect, use or disclose personal information. For example, it must be for purposes directly related to the emergency. The Privacy Commissioner on personal information during a state of national emergency (external link)
General information, PPE guidance, and easy-read and large-print factsheets that you can print at home. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. Unite against COVID-19 campaign resources for broadcasters and media outlets. Follow us on social media, and get logos, headers, email signatures and profile pictures for your own channels. Find phone numbers for when you're not sure what help is available, or for advice and general enquiries. Find key documents and legislation about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Get creating to encourage your audiences to #stayhomeforit and save lives. Resources to help your business operate safely — including poster, signs, and contact tracing templates. --- Section Separator --- General information, PPE guidance, and easy-read and large-print factsheets that you can print at home. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. Unite against COVID-19 campaign resources for broadcasters and media outlets. Follow us on social media, and get logos, headers, email signatures and profile pictures for your own channels. Find phone numbers for when you're not sure what help is available, or for advice and general enquiries. Find key documents and legislation about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Get creating to encourage your audiences to #stayhomeforit and save lives. Resources to help your business operate safely — including poster, signs, and contact tracing templates.
Home Resources Government helpline --- Section Separator --- This website is the fastest way to find help and advice about the COVID-19 situation in New Zealand. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 5pm, 7 days a week. For advice, support and general enquiries, please call 0800 22 66 57 , 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, weekends and public holidays. --- Section Separator --- This website is the fastest way to find help and advice about the COVID-19 situation in New Zealand. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 5pm, 7 days a week. For advice, support and general enquiries, please call 0800 22 66 57 , 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, weekends and public holidays. --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources Information sheets --- Section Separator --- Welfare Factsheet [PDF, 961 KB] Welfare contact card A4 [PDF, 51 KB] Welfare contact card A5 [PDF, 50 KB] Self-isolation [PDF, 1.5 MB] New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 201 KB] Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster [PDF, 181 KB] PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 179 KB] PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 184 KB] Staying safe when having essential work done at home or work [PDF, 28 KB] Resources in NZ Sign Language, easy read and large print formats Resources in other languages --- Section Separator --- Welfare Factsheet [PDF, 961 KB] Welfare contact card A4 [PDF, 51 KB] Welfare contact card A5 [PDF, 50 KB] Self-isolation [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level — updated 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 201 KB] Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster [PDF, 181 KB] PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 179 KB] PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 184 KB] Staying safe when having essential work done at home or work [PDF, 28 KB] --- Section Separator --- Resources in NZ Sign Language, easy read and large print formats --- Section Separator --- Resources in other languages --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources Key documents and legislation --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Local Government Act 2002) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Social Security Act 2018 – Temporary Additional Support) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Employment Relations Act 2000—Collective Bargaining) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Oaths and Declarations Act 1957) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Protection of Personal and Property Rights Act 1988—Enduring Powers of Attorney) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012—Licence Application Inquiries) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Wills Act 2007—Signing and Witnessing of Wills) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 [PDF, 600 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 7 May 2020 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – new as of 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency [PDF, 1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency [PDF, 1 MB] Section 70(1)(f) and (m) extension and amendment order 2020 – 29 April 2020 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Order 2020 (external link) Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Section 70(1)(f) extension and amendment of notice to all persons in New Zealand – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1.3 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) extension and amendment of notice to arrivals – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 986 KB] Section 70(1)(m) amendment to notice to close premises – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) notice to arrivals – 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.8 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to all persons in New Zealand – 3 April 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 31 March 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Section 70(1)(m) notice to close premises and forbidding congregation in outdoor places of amusement or recreation – 25 March 2020 [PDF, 3.1 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 16 March 2020 [PDF, 514 KB] Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19 – Parole Act 2002 and Sentencing Act 2002) Notice 2020 – 30 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 6 May 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 29 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 22 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 15 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 8 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 2 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency declared at 12.21pm on 25 March 2020 (external link) Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management groups in relation to tsunami alert testing – 4 April 2020 [PDF, 67 KB] Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups and Group Controllers for the duration of the COVID-19 response and recovery – 29 March 2020 [PDF, 70 KB] The Government has publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Local Government Act 2002) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Social Security Act 2018 – Temporary Additional Support) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Employment Relations Act 2000—Collective Bargaining) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Oaths and Declarations Act 1957) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Protection of Personal and Property Rights Act 1988—Enduring Powers of Attorney) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012—Licence Application Inquiries) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Wills Act 2007—Signing and Witnessing of Wills) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 [PDF, 600 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – updated 7 May 2020 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Level – new as of 7 May 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency [PDF, 1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Section 70(1)(f) and (m) extension and amendment order 2020 – 29 April 2020 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Health Act (COVID-19 Alert Level 3) Order 2020 (external link) Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Map of regions [PDF, 6 MB] Section 70(1)(f) extension and amendment of notice to all persons in New Zealand – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1.3 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) extension and amendment of notice to arrivals – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 986 KB] Section 70(1)(m) amendment to notice to close premises – 21 April 2020 [PDF, 1 MB] ( expired ) Section 70(1)(e), (ea) and (f) notice to arrivals – 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.8 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to all persons in New Zealand – 3 April 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 31 March 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Section 70(1)(m) notice to close premises and forbidding congregation in outdoor places of amusement or recreation – 25 March 2020 [PDF, 3.1 MB] ( revoked ) Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 16 March 2020 [PDF, 514 KB] Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19 – Parole Act 2002 and Sentencing Act 2002) Notice 2020 – 30 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 6 May 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 29 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 22 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 15 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 8 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12.21pm on 2 April 2020 (external link) State of national emergency declared at 12.21pm on 25 March 2020 (external link) Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management groups in relation to tsunami alert testing – 4 April 2020 [PDF, 67 KB] Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups and Group Controllers for the duration of the COVID-19 response and recovery – 29 March 2020 [PDF, 70 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government has publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation Proactive release Proactive release #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Where a final decision has been made after 17 April this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes In addition to the documents released the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Daily updated figures on cases and testing (external link) Daily updates by Ministers and Officials (external link) Ministry of Health modelling of the health impacts of COVID-19 (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Treasury’s economic scenario modelling (external link) Ministry for Social Development weekly income support and wage subsidy updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Where a final decision has been made after 17 April this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- In addition to the documents released the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Daily updated figures on cases and testing (external link) Daily updates by Ministers and Officials (external link) Ministry of Health modelling of the health impacts of COVID-19 (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Treasury’s economic scenario modelling (external link) Ministry for Social Development weekly income support and wage subsidy updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Border --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Education --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Health response --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Housing --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Income support measures --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Offshore issues --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Supporting the economy --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Key documents and legislation Proactive release Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Resources Resources for media outlets --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 announcement: Being kind (30 seconds) [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 announcement: Coughing or sneezing (30 seconds) [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 announcement: Wash your hands (30 seconds) [MP3, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 announcement: Being kind (30 seconds) [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 announcement: Coughing or sneezing (30 seconds) [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 announcement: Wash your hands (30 seconds) [MP3, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources Posters --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others in 6 steps (English) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others in 6 steps (Te Reo Māori) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Be kind [PDF, 1.5 MB] Slow the spread — A4 only [PDF, 1.5 MB] Slow the spread — A3 or larger [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2m Distance  — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] 2m Distance — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and Disinfect — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and Disinfect — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You need to adjust your printer settings. Safe business declaration A4 (external link) How to wait safely poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] 2 metre distancing poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Be kind to others poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Poster asking people not to enter your building [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others in 6 steps (English) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others in 6 steps (Te Reo Māori) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Be kind [PDF, 1.5 MB] Slow the spread — A4 only [PDF, 1.5 MB] Slow the spread — A3 or larger [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2m Distance  — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] 2m Distance — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and Disinfect — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and Disinfect — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You need to adjust your printer settings. Safe business declaration A4 (external link) How to wait safely poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] 2 metre distancing poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Be kind to others poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Poster asking people not to enter your building [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources Social and digital media --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) Sign up to the latest updates from Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Logos, headers, email signatures and profile pictures you can use on social media and digital channels. Unite against COVID-19 logo [JPG, 67 KB] Header Logo only [JPG, 44 KB] Header Stripes only [JPG, 36 KB] Header Wash hands icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Wash hands text and icon [JPG, 60 KB] Header Stay home icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Stay home text and icon [JPG, 59 KB] Header Be kind icon [JPG, 43 KB] Header Be kind text and icon [JPG, 48 KB] Header Self-isolation icon [JPG, 45 KB] Header Self-isolation text and icon [JPG, 53 KB] Email signature [PNG, 12 KB] Profile picture Be kind text and icon [JPG, 327 KB] Profile picture Unite text [JPG, 151 KB] Profile picture Mā tātau katoa text [JPG, 166 KB] --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) Sign up to the latest updates from Unite against COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Logos, headers, email signatures and profile pictures you can use on social media and digital channels. Unite against COVID-19 logo [JPG, 67 KB] Header Logo only [JPG, 44 KB] Header Stripes only [JPG, 36 KB] Header Wash hands icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Wash hands text and icon [JPG, 60 KB] Header Stay home icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Stay home text and icon [JPG, 59 KB] Header Be kind icon [JPG, 43 KB] Header Be kind text and icon [JPG, 48 KB] Header Self-isolation icon [JPG, 45 KB] Header Self-isolation text and icon [JPG, 53 KB] Email signature [PNG, 12 KB] Profile picture Be kind text and icon [JPG, 327 KB] Profile picture Unite text [JPG, 151 KB] Profile picture Mā tātau katoa text [JPG, 166 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources #stayhomeforit --- Section Separator --- Let's create a hundred great reasons for our young people to stay home. Save lives. And get the cool content and products they love. It could be a song if you’re a musician. A new pair of sneakers or other product. A limited-edition or re-released menu item if you’re a take-away or restaurant. A sweet new trick if you’re a skateboarder. It could be something you were already working on, something you hadn’t released yet or something completely new. Basically, any unreleased creation that shows off your talents. Here’s the twist — all these amazing creations only get released once the country is allowed back out. The sooner COVID-19 is beaten, the sooner you can release your creations. Stay home. Save lives. Get the goodies faster. Over your social channels, tease the creations you’ll release once we’re allowed back: You could show a behind-the-scenes film of you creating it; reveal a snippet of it; or show just a silhouette of whatever you’re teasing. In your video or caption, explain why you’re doing it: “Stay home. Save lives. Get your hands on <these sick new sneakers> we’ve just created sooner #stayhomeforit” We’ve provided some assets you can put at the top and tail of your videos below. Post the teaser of your creation on social with the hashtags: #stayhomeforit #uniteagainstcovid19 I have read the #stayhomeforit terms and conditions (external link) Download --- Section Separator --- Let's create a hundred great reasons for our young people to stay home. Save lives. And get the cool content and products they love. --- Section Separator --- It could be a song if you’re a musician. A new pair of sneakers or other product. A limited-edition or re-released menu item if you’re a take-away or restaurant. A sweet new trick if you’re a skateboarder. It could be something you were already working on, something you hadn’t released yet or something completely new. Basically, any unreleased creation that shows off your talents. --- Section Separator --- Here’s the twist — all these amazing creations only get released once the country is allowed back out. The sooner COVID-19 is beaten, the sooner you can release your creations. Stay home. Save lives. Get the goodies faster. --- Section Separator --- Over your social channels, tease the creations you’ll release once we’re allowed back: You could show a behind-the-scenes film of you creating it; reveal a snippet of it; or show just a silhouette of whatever you’re teasing. In your video or caption, explain why you’re doing it: “Stay home. Save lives. Get your hands on <these sick new sneakers> we’ve just created sooner #stayhomeforit” We’ve provided some assets you can put at the top and tail of your videos below. Post the teaser of your creation on social with the hashtags: #stayhomeforit #uniteagainstcovid19 --- Section Separator --- I have read the #stayhomeforit terms and conditions (external link) Download --- Section Separator --- Information sheets Posters Resources for media outlets Social and digital media Government helpline Key documents and legislation #stayhomeforit Business Toolkit
Home Resources #stayhomeforit #stayhomeforit terms and conditions --- Section Separator --- These terms and conditions apply to your participation in the #stayhomeforit campaign (“ Campaign ”), and your use of the #stayhomeforit toolkit (“ Toolkit” ). #stayhomeforit toolkit Use of the Toolkit is conditional on your acceptance of and compliance with these terms and conditions. The Promoter or its agents may direct that you cease use of the Toolkit, delete or remove any materials you prepare in association with the Campaign (“ Content” ) that are used in conjunction with material from the Toolkit, and cease your association with the Campaign at any time in its sole discretion. You must comply with any such request immediately. You agree that you are fully responsible for the Content. The Promoter shall not be liable in any way for such Content, to the full extent permitted by law. The Promoter may remove or decline to publish any Content without notice for any reason whatsoever. To participate in this Campaign and use the Toolkit, you warrant and agree that: you will not submit any Content that is unlawful or fraudulent, or that is or that the Promoter may deem in breach of any intellectual property, privacy, publicity or other rights, or that is defamatory, objectionable to any person, or is otherwise offensive or unsuitable; your Content shall not contain viruses or cause injury or harm to any person or entity; You will obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in your Content; the Content is your original work or you have obtained the prior consent of any person that has any rights in the Content to use the Content in association with the Campaign, and the Content does not infringe the rights of any third party; you consent to any use of the Content which may otherwise infringe your moral rights pursuant to the Copyright Act 1994 and warrant that you have the full authority to grant these rights; you are solely responsible for any costs that you may incur in relation to the Content or your participation in the Campaign; and you will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation, those governing copyright, fair trading, consumer law, defamation, privacy, publicity and the access or use of others' computer or communication systems. you will not submit any Content that is unlawful or fraudulent, or that is or that the Promoter may deem in breach of any intellectual property, privacy, publicity or other rights, or that is defamatory, objectionable to any person, or is otherwise offensive or unsuitable; your Content shall not contain viruses or cause injury or harm to any person or entity; You will obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in your Content; the Content is your original work or you have obtained the prior consent of any person that has any rights in the Content to use the Content in association with the Campaign, and the Content does not infringe the rights of any third party; you consent to any use of the Content which may otherwise infringe your moral rights pursuant to the Copyright Act 1994 and warrant that you have the full authority to grant these rights; you are solely responsible for any costs that you may incur in relation to the Content or your participation in the Campaign; and you will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation, those governing copyright, fair trading, consumer law, defamation, privacy, publicity and the access or use of others' computer or communication systems. You must not provide material from the Toolkit to any other person. You may however direct any person to www.covid19.govt.nz so that they can access the Toolkit themselves. You grant the Promoter, its affiliates and sub-licensees a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, and sub-licensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish and display any Content that is used in conjunction with material from the Toolkit for any purpose, including but not limited to future promotional, marketing or publicity purposes, in any media, without compensation, restriction on use, attribution or liability. Without limiting the above, the Promoter may use Content in any way that is permitted by the social media platform upon which the Content is uploaded. All content in the Toolkit is the property of the Promoter. In particular the Promoter reserves all rights to any design, copyright (including rights in software), branding, database, trade mark, domain name, confidential information, and all similar property rights relating to the Campaign and the Toolkit, whether registered or not and including any application for registration. You agree that you will not amend or modify any material that is provided as part of the Toolkit without the Promoter’s prior written consent. If this Campaign is interfered with in any way or is not capable of being conducted as reasonably anticipated due to any reason beyond the reasonable control of the Promoter, including but not limited to technical difficulties, unauthorised intervention or fraud, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to modify, suspend, terminate or cancel the Campaign, as appropriate. Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of those rights. All decisions made by the Promoter its employees or agents are final and no correspondence will be entered into. Any personal information that you disclose or submit in connection with this Campaign may be held by the Promoter or any agency associated with this campaign (including but not limited to Clemenger BBDO, 1 Post Office Square, WGTN 6011) for the purposes of the Campaign. The Promoter will comply with the Privacy Act 1993 in all respects. You can access and request correction of any such personal information by contacting info@clemenger.co.nz . This Campaign is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by or associated with, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, or any other social media platform. Any information provided by you in the course of this Campaign is provided to the Promoter and not to Instagram, Twitter or Facebook. These terms and conditions are governed by the laws of New Zealand. By participating in this Campaign you agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the New Zealand courts. The Promoter of this Campaign is the New Zealand Government. --- Section Separator --- These terms and conditions apply to your participation in the #stayhomeforit campaign (“ Campaign ”), and your use of the #stayhomeforit toolkit (“ Toolkit” ). #stayhomeforit toolkit Use of the Toolkit is conditional on your acceptance of and compliance with these terms and conditions. The Promoter or its agents may direct that you cease use of the Toolkit, delete or remove any materials you prepare in association with the Campaign (“ Content” ) that are used in conjunction with material from the Toolkit, and cease your association with the Campaign at any time in its sole discretion. You must comply with any such request immediately. You agree that you are fully responsible for the Content. The Promoter shall not be liable in any way for such Content, to the full extent permitted by law. The Promoter may remove or decline to publish any Content without notice for any reason whatsoever. To participate in this Campaign and use the Toolkit, you warrant and agree that: you will not submit any Content that is unlawful or fraudulent, or that is or that the Promoter may deem in breach of any intellectual property, privacy, publicity or other rights, or that is defamatory, objectionable to any person, or is otherwise offensive or unsuitable; your Content shall not contain viruses or cause injury or harm to any person or entity; You will obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in your Content; the Content is your original work or you have obtained the prior consent of any person that has any rights in the Content to use the Content in association with the Campaign, and the Content does not infringe the rights of any third party; you consent to any use of the Content which may otherwise infringe your moral rights pursuant to the Copyright Act 1994 and warrant that you have the full authority to grant these rights; you are solely responsible for any costs that you may incur in relation to the Content or your participation in the Campaign; and you will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation, those governing copyright, fair trading, consumer law, defamation, privacy, publicity and the access or use of others' computer or communication systems. you will not submit any Content that is unlawful or fraudulent, or that is or that the Promoter may deem in breach of any intellectual property, privacy, publicity or other rights, or that is defamatory, objectionable to any person, or is otherwise offensive or unsuitable; your Content shall not contain viruses or cause injury or harm to any person or entity; You will obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in your Content; the Content is your original work or you have obtained the prior consent of any person that has any rights in the Content to use the Content in association with the Campaign, and the Content does not infringe the rights of any third party; you consent to any use of the Content which may otherwise infringe your moral rights pursuant to the Copyright Act 1994 and warrant that you have the full authority to grant these rights; you are solely responsible for any costs that you may incur in relation to the Content or your participation in the Campaign; and you will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation, those governing copyright, fair trading, consumer law, defamation, privacy, publicity and the access or use of others' computer or communication systems. You must not provide material from the Toolkit to any other person. You may however direct any person to www.covid19.govt.nz so that they can access the Toolkit themselves. You grant the Promoter, its affiliates and sub-licensees a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, and sub-licensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish and display any Content that is used in conjunction with material from the Toolkit for any purpose, including but not limited to future promotional, marketing or publicity purposes, in any media, without compensation, restriction on use, attribution or liability. Without limiting the above, the Promoter may use Content in any way that is permitted by the social media platform upon which the Content is uploaded. All content in the Toolkit is the property of the Promoter. In particular the Promoter reserves all rights to any design, copyright (including rights in software), branding, database, trade mark, domain name, confidential information, and all similar property rights relating to the Campaign and the Toolkit, whether registered or not and including any application for registration. You agree that you will not amend or modify any material that is provided as part of the Toolkit without the Promoter’s prior written consent. If this Campaign is interfered with in any way or is not capable of being conducted as reasonably anticipated due to any reason beyond the reasonable control of the Promoter, including but not limited to technical difficulties, unauthorised intervention or fraud, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to modify, suspend, terminate or cancel the Campaign, as appropriate. Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of those rights. All decisions made by the Promoter its employees or agents are final and no correspondence will be entered into. Any personal information that you disclose or submit in connection with this Campaign may be held by the Promoter or any agency associated with this campaign (including but not limited to Clemenger BBDO, 1 Post Office Square, WGTN 6011) for the purposes of the Campaign. The Promoter will comply with the Privacy Act 1993 in all respects. You can access and request correction of any such personal information by contacting info@clemenger.co.nz . This Campaign is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by or associated with, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, or any other social media platform. Any information provided by you in the course of this Campaign is provided to the Promoter and not to Instagram, Twitter or Facebook. These terms and conditions are governed by the laws of New Zealand. By participating in this Campaign you agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the New Zealand courts. The Promoter of this Campaign is the New Zealand Government.
You must log in with your CMS password in order to view the draft or archived content. Click here to go back to the published site. You must log in with your CMS password in order to view the draft or archived content. Click here to go back to the published site. I've lost my password
Enter your e-mail address and we will send you a link with which you can reset your password
Home Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website hosted and operated by NZ Government. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to agree to these Terms of use. NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Email us for further information. Email: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown.  If you would like to use any of the content on the site for commercial purposes, contact us at: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and other logos, icons, emblems and trade marks on covid19.govt.nz are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Copyright in photographs on covid19.govt.nz is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Mobile phones, smartphones or digital devices that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website hosted and operated by NZ Government. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to agree to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. --- Section Separator --- NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Email us for further information. Email: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown.  If you would like to use any of the content on the site for commercial purposes, contact us at: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and other logos, icons, emblems and trade marks on covid19.govt.nz are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Copyright in photographs on covid19.govt.nz is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Mobile phones, smartphones or digital devices that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Use this website from your mobile for free
Home Use this website from your mobile for free --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you'll be able to use our website. You need to make sure your mobile data is turned on. We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a very small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you'll be able to use our website. You need to make sure your mobile data is turned on. --- Section Separator --- We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a very small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network --- Section Separator --- Use this website from your mobile for free
Home Translations Māori | Te Reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels table (Te Reo Māori) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Poster: Protect yourself and others in 6 steps | Tiaki i a koe anō me ētahi atu mā ēnei mahi e 6 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Service and support contacts | Ngā whakapā ratonga me te tautoko [PDF, 57 KB] Logo: Unite against COVID-19 | Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19 [JPG, 75 KB] Alert Level 3 information | Ngā Mōhiohio Taumata Whakatūpato 3 [PDF, 185 KB] Golden rules for Level 3 | Ngā ture hira mō te Taumata 3 [PDF, 311 KB] Level 4: Your stay at home plan | Taumata 4: Tō mahere noho kāinga [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels table (Te Reo Māori) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Poster: Protect yourself and others in 6 steps | Tiaki i a koe anō me ētahi atu mā ēnei mahi e 6 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Service and support contacts | Ngā whakapā ratonga me te tautoko [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- Logo: Unite against COVID-19 | Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19 [JPG, 75 KB] --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 information | Ngā Mōhiohio Taumata Whakatūpato 3 [PDF, 185 KB] Golden rules for Level 3 | Ngā ture hira mō te Taumata 3 [PDF, 311 KB] --- Section Separator --- Level 4: Your stay at home plan | Taumata 4: Tō mahere noho kāinga [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Māori | Te Reo Māori Arabic | عربي Bengali | বাংলা Simplified Chinese | 简体中文 Dari | دری Cook Islands Māori | Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Farsi | فارسی Fijian | Vosa Vakaviti Hindi | हिन्दी Indonesian | Bahasa Indonesia Japanese | 日本語 Kiribati | Te taetae ni Kiribati Korean | 한국어 Niuean | Vagahau Niue Pashto | پښتو Punjabi | ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Rotuman | Fäeag Rotųam Samoan | Gagana Samoa Somali | Af-Soomaali Spanish | Español Tagalog Thai Tokelauan | Te Gagana Tokelau Tongan | Lea Faka Tonga Tuvaluan | Te Gana Tuvalu Urdu Vietnamese All languages