Auckland remains at Alert Level 4 until then. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. What you can do to stay safe Find out how to book your vaccine Check locations of interest What to do at Alert Level 2 What to do at Alert Level 4 When to wear a mask Get a COVID-19 test Download posters Find out if you can travel Work and do business safely Find support --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm 33 New community cases 33 New community cases 614 Total active cases in New Zealand 614 Total active cases in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm 2,862,765 First dose administered 2,862,765 First dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. The Government is responding to need for support in Auckland and has committed a further $10 million to help people access food and other essential items. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 13 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 12 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 10 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 9 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 8 September 2021 --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested.
Auckland remains at Alert Level 4 until then. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. What you can do to stay safe Find out how to book your vaccine Check locations of interest Get a COVID-19 test What to do at Alert Level 2 When to wear a mask Download posters Find out if you can travel Work and do business safely Find support --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm 33 New community cases 33 New community cases 614 Total active cases in New Zealand 614 Total active cases in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm 2,862,765 First dose administered 2,862,765 First dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. The Government is responding to need for support in Auckland and has committed a further $10 million to help people access food and other essential items. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 13 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 12 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 10 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 9 September 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 8 September 2021 --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested.
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Employment support and services Financial support Provide feedback Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Here is a range of advice, help, or support if you need it. Download a list of available services and support [PDF, 164 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Find who to contact for COVID-19 related support. --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- Support if you are seeking a job, or if you want to know your rights as an employee and keep yourself safe. --- Section Separator --- There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs at the different Alert Levels. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Advice about attending large events and using public venues at each of the Alert Levels. Advice on going to a place of worship, attending a faith-based celebration or festival, and for people who are responsible for places of worship. Advice on funerals, tangihanga and providing last rites for families and whānau. Advice about who can be included in your household bubble at each Alert Level. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Advice on hosting or attending a private social gathering at each of the Alert Levels. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers at different Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Advice for people planning to get married or form a civil union, people attending a wedding or civil union, and venues hosting these events. --- Section Separator --- We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs at the different Alert Levels. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Advice about attending large events and using public venues at each of the Alert Levels. Advice on going to a place of worship, attending a faith-based celebration or festival, and for people who are responsible for places of worship. Advice on funerals, tangihanga and providing last rites for families and whānau. Advice about who can be included in your household bubble at each Alert Level. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Advice on hosting or attending a private social gathering at each of the Alert Levels. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers at different Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Advice for people planning to get married or form a civil union, people attending a wedding or civil union, and venues hosting these events.
Home Activities Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, talk to your support networks like family, whānau, friends, and neighbours to see if they could deliver essential items to you. If you cannot access cooked food delivery services from the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board or ACC — for example Meals on Wheels, you can order food from supermarkets, bakeries, and uncooked food suppliers. These include subscription food boxes. For subscription food boxes try My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. For supermarket delivery contact your local Countdown or New World. Subscription food boxes can only deliver uncooked food. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. Order online: shop.sva.org.nz. (external link) Order by phone if you are in Auckland — 09 801 2122 . Order by phone for the rest of New Zealand — 0800 005 902 . You can also use your supermarket’s click-and-collect service, and ask a local friend, family member or neighbour to drop off groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. Deliveries should be contactless and kept local. If you are delivering supplies, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering. If you get your supplies delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put the supplies away. If you need financial help to buy food, Work and Income may be able to help. Work and Income can provide assistance with urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. MyMSD | my.msd.govt.nz (external link) Work and Income | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) You can also use our financial support tool to see what support is available to you. Use our financial support tool If you need food, your local food bank may be able to help. Find a food bank | familyservices.govt.nz (external link) If you have tried and cannot access support through any of the options above, contact your local Civil Defence and Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. Find your local civil defence group | civildefence.govt.nz (external link) If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Online MyMSD (external link) Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) . Access to food or essential items fact sheet [PDF, 76 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, talk to your support networks like family, whānau, friends, and neighbours to see if they could deliver essential items to you. If you cannot access cooked food delivery services from the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board or ACC — for example Meals on Wheels, you can order food from supermarkets, bakeries, and uncooked food suppliers. These include subscription food boxes. For subscription food boxes try My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. For supermarket delivery contact your local Countdown or New World. Subscription food boxes can only deliver uncooked food. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. Order online: shop.sva.org.nz. (external link) Order by phone if you are in Auckland — 09 801 2122 . Order by phone for the rest of New Zealand — 0800 005 902 . You can also use your supermarket’s click-and-collect service, and ask a local friend, family member or neighbour to drop off groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. --- Section Separator --- Deliveries should be contactless and kept local. If you are delivering supplies, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering. If you get your supplies delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put the supplies away. --- Section Separator --- If you need financial help to buy food, Work and Income may be able to help. Work and Income can provide assistance with urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. MyMSD | my.msd.govt.nz (external link) Work and Income | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) You can also use our financial support tool to see what support is available to you. Use our financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you need food, your local food bank may be able to help. Find a food bank | familyservices.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have tried and cannot access support through any of the options above, contact your local Civil Defence and Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. Find your local civil defence group | civildefence.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Online MyMSD (external link) Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) . --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items fact sheet [PDF, 76 KB] --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from each other and customers by 1 metre. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Face coverings are encouraged when you are not eating or drinking, as you will be seated and separated from others, but they are not a requirement. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. All restaurants, cafes and bars can have a maximum of: 50 people, all seated, inside their premises at a time, and 100 people, all seated, within the defined outdoor space. This might mean you have to wait for a table. We recommend you call ahead and book. If you are dining in, you legally must: remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It is up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You must wear a face covering when picking up a takeaway order. At Alert Level 2, food courts can open but with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. There may be reduced seating due to physical distancing. If you are waiting in line to order, keep 2 metres away from other customers and staff. If you are visiting a takeaway food outlet — for example, a fish and chip shop, you must wear a face covering when picking up your order. We recommend you keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 1 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you will need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. You will need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, hospitality businesses can operate two or more activities on the same premises, provided customers don’t move back and forth between spaces. For example, a customer can order and eat food in the restaurant. Once they have finished their meal or drink, they can then go to the gaming room or to play pool, as long as they do not take food or drink with them. Gaming machines and pool tables must each be in separate spaces from the restaurant or bar. Each space should display QR codes for contact tracing. Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). At Alert Level 4, all cafes, restaurants, takeaways, and nightclubs must close. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, cannot operate at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from each other and customers by 1 metre. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Face coverings are encouraged when you are not eating or drinking, as you will be seated and separated from others, but they are not a requirement. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. All restaurants, cafes and bars can have a maximum of: 50 people, all seated, inside their premises at a time, and 100 people, all seated, within the defined outdoor space. This might mean you have to wait for a table. We recommend you call ahead and book. If you are dining in, you legally must: remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It is up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You must wear a face covering when picking up a takeaway order. At Alert Level 2, food courts can open but with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. There may be reduced seating due to physical distancing. If you are waiting in line to order, keep 2 metres away from other customers and staff. If you are visiting a takeaway food outlet — for example, a fish and chip shop, you must wear a face covering when picking up your order. We recommend you keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 1 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you will need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. You will need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, hospitality businesses can operate two or more activities on the same premises, provided customers don’t move back and forth between spaces. For example, a customer can order and eat food in the restaurant. Once they have finished their meal or drink, they can then go to the gaming room or to play pool, as long as they do not take food or drink with them. Gaming machines and pool tables must each be in separate spaces from the restaurant or bar. Each space should display QR codes for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all cafes, restaurants, takeaways, and nightclubs must close. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, cannot operate at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Education --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki (children) who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga (students) and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. At Alert Level 2, students can return to school hostels and accomodation at boarding schools, but they must travel there in a safe way. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but it is not a requirement. At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Early learning centres can open to provide childcare for tamariki (children) whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools and kura will be open for tamariki (children) in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your tamariki (children) at home if you have other caregiving options. Your child's school will work with you to find out which tamariki (children) need to go into school. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki (children) and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki (children) who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools must set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Each bubble should have no more than 10 tamariki (children) or rangatahi (young people). Teachers are not included in this total. Teachers should stay with the same bubble of students. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases online learning may not be an option — for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 10 people per class. This group of 10 should include the tutor. Each class is considered a bubble and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 10. Staff and students should wear a face covering when attending classes in person. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Student accomodation — for example university halls of residence can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Students should continue to stay in their accomodation and keep to their bubble. Students can only move out of their accommodation if they are moving permanently or returning home. We recommend students do not move into or out of their student accomodation unless it is an emergency, or they are in danger. If your tamariki (child) or rangatahi (young person) has a learning need, you can invite one teacher aide to be a part of your bubble so they can provide face-to-face learning. The teacher aide cannot join any other school bubble. At Alert Level 4, all education facilities are closed. This includes: early learning services schools kura tertiary education providers and whare wānanga All students must learn from home. Your child's school will contact you directly about organising learning materials and devices to be delivered to your home. Tertiary accomodation can remain open. If you normally live in student accomodation, but you travelled home to stay with friends or whānau during Alert Level 4, you cannot return to your student accomodation until Alert Level 4 restrictions are lifted. Learning from home resources and information | Ministry of Education (external link) Home learning TV | TVNZ (external link) Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora | Māori TV (external link) COVID-19 information | Ministry of Education (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Alert Level 4 workers who have children aged up to 13 years old can access free care, so they are able to continue to provide the services we need at Alert Level 4. The scheme is for workers in Alert Level 4 businesses and services, and other exempted services such as fire and emergency and border workers. You can get free childcare if you do not have childcare in place — you are expected to use your own private arrangements where possible. Access a childcare provider for workers of Alert Level 4 businesses or services (external link) All tamariki (children), young people, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but not a requirement. Parents and caregivers may want to wear a face covering when dropping or picking up their tamariki (children) from school. Tamariki (children) and ākonga (students) who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. But face coverings are not needed on a school bus. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone: 0508 326 459 Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you are an ākonga (student) who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) If you are an international student, you may be able to apply for the Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help pay for basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki (children) who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga (students) and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. At Alert Level 2, students can return to school hostels and accomodation at boarding schools, but they must travel there in a safe way. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but it is not a requirement. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Early learning centres can open to provide childcare for tamariki (children) whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools and kura will be open for tamariki (children) in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your tamariki (children) at home if you have other caregiving options. Your child's school will work with you to find out which tamariki (children) need to go into school. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki (children) and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki (children) who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools must set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Each bubble should have no more than 10 tamariki (children) or rangatahi (young people). Teachers are not included in this total. Teachers should stay with the same bubble of students. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases online learning may not be an option — for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 10 people per class. This group of 10 should include the tutor. Each class is considered a bubble and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 10. Staff and students should wear a face covering when attending classes in person. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Student accomodation — for example university halls of residence can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Students should continue to stay in their accomodation and keep to their bubble. Students can only move out of their accommodation if they are moving permanently or returning home. We recommend students do not move into or out of their student accomodation unless it is an emergency, or they are in danger. If your tamariki (child) or rangatahi (young person) has a learning need, you can invite one teacher aide to be a part of your bubble so they can provide face-to-face learning. The teacher aide cannot join any other school bubble. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all education facilities are closed. This includes: early learning services schools kura tertiary education providers and whare wānanga All students must learn from home. Your child's school will contact you directly about organising learning materials and devices to be delivered to your home. Tertiary accomodation can remain open. If you normally live in student accomodation, but you travelled home to stay with friends or whānau during Alert Level 4, you cannot return to your student accomodation until Alert Level 4 restrictions are lifted. Learning from home resources and information | Ministry of Education (external link) Home learning TV | TVNZ (external link) Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora | Māori TV (external link) COVID-19 information | Ministry of Education (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Alert Level 4 workers who have children aged up to 13 years old can access free care, so they are able to continue to provide the services we need at Alert Level 4. The scheme is for workers in Alert Level 4 businesses and services, and other exempted services such as fire and emergency and border workers. You can get free childcare if you do not have childcare in place — you are expected to use your own private arrangements where possible. Access a childcare provider for workers of Alert Level 4 businesses or services (external link) --- Section Separator --- All tamariki (children), young people, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but not a requirement. Parents and caregivers may want to wear a face covering when dropping or picking up their tamariki (children) from school. Tamariki (children) and ākonga (students) who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. But face coverings are not needed on a school bus. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone: 0508 326 459 Email: contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you are an ākonga (student) who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) If you are an international student, you may be able to apply for the Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help pay for basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Events and entertainment --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. At Alert Level 2, events can go ahead but with restrictions. Events and event facilities — for example, stadiums, cinemas and casinos — can have a maximum of: 50 people in any defined indoor space, and 100 people in any defined outdoor space. If you have people in both indoor and outdoor spaces, you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure you have separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Workers providing services to the event are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are providing food and drinks at an event, everyone must be seated to be served. If you go to an event, you legally must keep 1 metre apart from people you do not know. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Event organisers and venues such as cinemas may alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to support you to physically distance. Please follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. Even if you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to keep 1 metre apart from others, sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and stay home if you are sick. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other public event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined spaces. This includes when entering, leaving, or going to the bathroom. It does not include workers. At Alert Level 2, public venues such as libraries, art galleries and museums can open. Public venues also include indoor recreation facilities — for example, swimming pools, gyms and health clubs. If people can safely maintain 2 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some venues may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the venue, and be prepared to queue. Employees working at indoor public venues legally must wear a face covering — except for at a swimming pool. If you go to a public venue: keep 2 metres physical distance from people you do not know sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app you legally must wear a face covering at all indoor public venues — except for when you are exercising wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 2 If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , civil unions, funerals and tangihanga — up to a maximum of 10 people. All public facilities and venues such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. All public facilities and venues — for example, museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. All venues must have ways for people — including staff and guests to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. You also need to provide an alternative way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Find out more information about record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, events can go ahead but with restrictions. Events and event facilities — for example, stadiums, cinemas and casinos — can have a maximum of: 50 people in any defined indoor space, and 100 people in any defined outdoor space. If you have people in both indoor and outdoor spaces, you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure you have separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Workers providing services to the event are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are providing food and drinks at an event, everyone must be seated to be served. If you go to an event, you legally must keep 1 metre apart from people you do not know. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Event organisers and venues such as cinemas may alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to support you to physically distance. Please follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. Even if you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to keep 1 metre apart from others, sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and stay home if you are sick. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other public event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined spaces. This includes when entering, leaving, or going to the bathroom. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, public venues such as libraries, art galleries and museums can open. Public venues also include indoor recreation facilities — for example, swimming pools, gyms and health clubs. If people can safely maintain 2 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some venues may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the venue, and be prepared to queue. Employees working at indoor public venues legally must wear a face covering — except for at a swimming pool. If you go to a public venue: keep 2 metres physical distance from people you do not know sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app you legally must wear a face covering at all indoor public venues — except for when you are exercising wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 2 If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , civil unions, funerals and tangihanga — up to a maximum of 10 people. All public facilities and venues such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. All public facilities and venues — for example, museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. --- Section Separator --- All venues must have ways for people — including staff and guests to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. You also need to provide an alternative way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Find out more information about record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, faith-based gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for faith-based gatherings. Do not attend a faith-based gathering if you are unwell. If your place of worship offers a livestream service, we encourage you to join this instead. All places of worship must have ways for attendees to record their visit. This can be done by asking everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or by recording their contact details manually. We encourage you to wear a face covering when going to a place of worship. At Alert level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend a faith-based gathering. This includes: attending a service or prayer funerals and tangihanga weddings and civil union ceremonies faith-based celebrations and festivals. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2, places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 50 people if the service is indoors, and 100 people if the service is outdoors. The indoor and outdoor gathering limits do not include staff — for example, clergy. All places of worship must have ways for attendees to record their visit. This can be done by asking everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or by recording their contact details manually. Think about how you can reconfigure seating, prayer and other activities to allow for physical distancing. Offer online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Some religious rituals or practices need close contact — for example, a christening. Try to keep the time spent in close contact to a minimum. Remove communal resources such as prayer mats or prayer books. Encourage attendees to wear a face covering. Clean and sanitise musical instruments and other shared surfaces thoroughly before and after use. Singing, for example church choirs and other types of performance can go ahead. Performers do not need to wear a face covering. You can serve food and drink and host events or functions such as catered morning tea — as long as you keep to the gathering limits. Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 We strongly encourage you to wear a face covering when visiting a place of worship. You can mix with friends and whānau, but please be considerate of others and leave enough space for people to keep their distance if they want to. Do not attend a service or prayer if you are unwell. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or give your details to the place of worship to support contact tracing. Take home any personal items you bring in with you — for example, a prayer mat or prayer beads. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with up to 50 people for a faith-based celebration or festival, if the gathering is indoors. You can get together with 100 people if the gathering is held outdoors. The number of people who can attend a gathering or celebration does not include anyone leading or working at the gathering. If you are organising a faith-based celebration, you need to do the following: Make sure you do not exceed the gathering limits. You can offer a livestream option so more people can attend from home. Keep a record of everyone who attends. You can do this by creating a NZ COVID Tracer app QR code for your venue or location and asking your guests to scan in, or by recording their contact details manually. You do not need to keep contact tracing records if you are hosting a private gathering at your home and everyone knows each other. Make sure the venue is big enough for people to spread out comfortably if they want to. Provide seated table service if you are serving food or drinks. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table and place the tables 2 metres apart to help with physical distancing. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a faith-based gathering — such as services, ceremonies and festivals. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 4 area (in 1 trip) to attend a funeral or tangihanga, or wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 4 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. These services are limited to 10 people — this includes the faith-based leader officiating the wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Services can be livestreamed. We encourage whānau to pray or worship together in their household bubbles and join a livestream online. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 3, we still need to stay in our household bubbles. Gathering together for faith-based celebrations and festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble and you can also expand your bubble slightly to bring in close family, caregivers, or to support people who may be isolated. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. At Alert Level 4, places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. This includes weddings, civil unions and funerals and tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 4, gathering together for faith-based celebrations or festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble to celebrate with the people you live with. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, faith-based gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for faith-based gatherings. Do not attend a faith-based gathering if you are unwell. If your place of worship offers a livestream service, we encourage you to join this instead. All places of worship must have ways for attendees to record their visit. This can be done by asking everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or by recording their contact details manually. We encourage you to wear a face covering when going to a place of worship. --- Section Separator --- At Alert level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend a faith-based gathering. This includes: attending a service or prayer funerals and tangihanga weddings and civil union ceremonies faith-based celebrations and festivals. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 50 people if the service is indoors, and 100 people if the service is outdoors. The indoor and outdoor gathering limits do not include staff — for example, clergy. All places of worship must have ways for attendees to record their visit. This can be done by asking everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or by recording their contact details manually. Think about how you can reconfigure seating, prayer and other activities to allow for physical distancing. Offer online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Some religious rituals or practices need close contact — for example, a christening. Try to keep the time spent in close contact to a minimum. Remove communal resources such as prayer mats or prayer books. Encourage attendees to wear a face covering. Clean and sanitise musical instruments and other shared surfaces thoroughly before and after use. Singing, for example church choirs and other types of performance can go ahead. Performers do not need to wear a face covering. You can serve food and drink and host events or functions such as catered morning tea — as long as you keep to the gathering limits. Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 We strongly encourage you to wear a face covering when visiting a place of worship. You can mix with friends and whānau, but please be considerate of others and leave enough space for people to keep their distance if they want to. Do not attend a service or prayer if you are unwell. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or give your details to the place of worship to support contact tracing. Take home any personal items you bring in with you — for example, a prayer mat or prayer beads. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with up to 50 people for a faith-based celebration or festival, if the gathering is indoors. You can get together with 100 people if the gathering is held outdoors. The number of people who can attend a gathering or celebration does not include anyone leading or working at the gathering. If you are organising a faith-based celebration, you need to do the following: Make sure you do not exceed the gathering limits. You can offer a livestream option so more people can attend from home. Keep a record of everyone who attends. You can do this by creating a NZ COVID Tracer app QR code for your venue or location and asking your guests to scan in, or by recording their contact details manually. You do not need to keep contact tracing records if you are hosting a private gathering at your home and everyone knows each other. Make sure the venue is big enough for people to spread out comfortably if they want to. Provide seated table service if you are serving food or drinks. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table and place the tables 2 metres apart to help with physical distancing. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a faith-based gathering — such as services, ceremonies and festivals. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 4 area (in 1 trip) to attend a funeral or tangihanga, or wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 4 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. These services are limited to 10 people — this includes the faith-based leader officiating the wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Services can be livestreamed. We encourage whānau to pray or worship together in their household bubbles and join a livestream online. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 3, we still need to stay in our household bubbles. Gathering together for faith-based celebrations and festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble and you can also expand your bubble slightly to bring in close family, caregivers, or to support people who may be isolated. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. This includes weddings, civil unions and funerals and tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 4, gathering together for faith-based celebrations or festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble to celebrate with the people you live with. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Funerals, tangihanga and last rites --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2, there are limits on the number of people who can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Up to 50 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga if it is held indoors. Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga if it is held outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes maraes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility and, all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Indoor and outdoor gathering limits for funerals apply. Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 4 area (in 1 trip) to attend a funeral or tangihanga. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 4 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Public toilets open at Alert Level 4 in Auckland (external link) At Alert Level 3, up to 10 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Families and communities must not carry out funerals themselves. Funeral directors can continue working at Alert Level 3. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served at a funeral or tangihanga. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging wear a face covering. Advice for funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 | Ministry of Health (external link) 2 whānau members from the same bubble as the deceased are allowed to dress their loved one — this must be carried out in the presence of an embalmer of funeral director. You can go to view the tūpāpaku — the person who has died — by appointment with the funeral director. Up to 10 people can view the body, but the 10 person limit includes staff who are attending. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in their household bubbles, and with the 10 person limit. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Up to 10 people can attend the funeral. The 10 person limit includes members of the clergy or staff who are attending. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. You can travel to another region within Alert Level 3 to attend a funeral or tangihanga. You do not need to apply for an exemption. However, if you want to travel through an Alert Level 4 area to attend a funeral or tangihanga in an Alert Level 3 area, you will need to apply for an exemption. Exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. It is very difficult to get an exemption. Apply for an exemption (external link) Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes: public funeral or memorial services burials and cremations tangihanga at marae, funeral homes and churches private whānau tangihanga. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support if you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away, the following steps can help you make the necessary arrangements: Contact the health provider or GP of the person who has passed away — ideally this should be done by someone in the same bubble. Get in touch with a local funeral director who will help you organise next steps. Māori communities, iwi, hapū and whānau are being encouraged to establish local kaiwhakarite or people who can assist whānau during this time. Get in touch with your iwi and hapū organisations or local marae to see if a kaiwhakarite has already been established. Whānau can go into a funeral home to view the tūpāpaku if they are all in the same household bubble. You will need to book this in advance. There are strict requirements that funeral directors need to follow. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funeral directors will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangi after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. Whānau who live in the same region as their whānau urupā can choose to have their loved one buried there. Whānau will need to make the urupā arrangements themselves. Your local marae can assist whānau by phone, email or video-conference with making these arrangements. Funeral directors will work with Muslim communities to identify people who can carry out ghusl ( ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body). Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Information and advice about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are limits on the number of people who can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Up to 50 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga if it is held indoors. Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga if it is held outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes maraes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility and, all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Indoor and outdoor gathering limits for funerals apply. Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 4 area (in 1 trip) to attend a funeral or tangihanga. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 4 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Public toilets open at Alert Level 4 in Auckland (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, up to 10 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Families and communities must not carry out funerals themselves. Funeral directors can continue working at Alert Level 3. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served at a funeral or tangihanga. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging wear a face covering. Advice for funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 | Ministry of Health (external link) 2 whānau members from the same bubble as the deceased are allowed to dress their loved one — this must be carried out in the presence of an embalmer of funeral director. You can go to view the tūpāpaku — the person who has died — by appointment with the funeral director. Up to 10 people can view the body, but the 10 person limit includes staff who are attending. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in their household bubbles, and with the 10 person limit. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Up to 10 people can attend the funeral. The 10 person limit includes members of the clergy or staff who are attending. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. You can travel to another region within Alert Level 3 to attend a funeral or tangihanga. You do not need to apply for an exemption. However, if you want to travel through an Alert Level 4 area to attend a funeral or tangihanga in an Alert Level 3 area, you will need to apply for an exemption. Exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. It is very difficult to get an exemption. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes: public funeral or memorial services burials and cremations tangihanga at marae, funeral homes and churches private whānau tangihanga. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support if you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away, the following steps can help you make the necessary arrangements: Contact the health provider or GP of the person who has passed away — ideally this should be done by someone in the same bubble. Get in touch with a local funeral director who will help you organise next steps. Māori communities, iwi, hapū and whānau are being encouraged to establish local kaiwhakarite or people who can assist whānau during this time. Get in touch with your iwi and hapū organisations or local marae to see if a kaiwhakarite has already been established. Whānau can go into a funeral home to view the tūpāpaku if they are all in the same household bubble. You will need to book this in advance. There are strict requirements that funeral directors need to follow. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funeral directors will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangi after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. Whānau who live in the same region as their whānau urupā can choose to have their loved one buried there. Whānau will need to make the urupā arrangements themselves. Your local marae can assist whānau by phone, email or video-conference with making these arrangements. Funeral directors will work with Muslim communities to identify people who can carry out ghusl ( ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body). Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Information and advice about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Household bubbles --- Section Separator --- Your household bubble (or ‘bubble’) is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with — for example, your immediate family or flatmates. It may also include close friends or workmates. At some Alert Levels, there are restrictions on who can be included in your bubble. This is to reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 1 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 1 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Gatherings are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 3, you must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you need to, you can expand it to bring in close family, isolated people or caregivers. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga, with up to 10 people. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement. Schools are open in a limited capacity for parents and caregivers who need to return to work at Alert Level 3. You can also extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. They cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 4, you must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 4 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 4 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 During Alert Level 4, tamariki (children) can continue to go between 2 homes to form a shared bubble if their parents or caregivers have a: shared care arrangement, or a court order under the Care of Children Act 2004 saying who has the day to day care of a child at specified times. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Your household bubble (or ‘bubble’) is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with — for example, your immediate family or flatmates. It may also include close friends or workmates. At some Alert Levels, there are restrictions on who can be included in your bubble. This is to reduce the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 1 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 1 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Gatherings are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you need to, you can expand it to bring in close family, isolated people or caregivers. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga, with up to 10 people. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement. Schools are open in a limited capacity for parents and caregivers who need to return to work at Alert Level 3. You can also extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. They cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 4 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 4 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 During Alert Level 4, tamariki (children) can continue to go between 2 homes to form a shared bubble if their parents or caregivers have a: shared care arrangement, or a court order under the Care of Children Act 2004 saying who has the day to day care of a child at specified times. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Meeting friends and whānau --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to: 50 people if you are meeting indoors 100 people if you are meeting outdoors. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil union ceremonies at Alert Level 2 Worship and faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 50 people attending — if the gathering is indoors, and less than 100 people attending — if the gathering is outdoors. record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, wash or sanitise your hands and wear a face covering if needed. At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. You can extend your household bubble to 2 or more homes to bring in close whānau, caregivers, or people who live alone or may be isolated. Everyone who is over 18 needs to agree to the extended bubble. Keep your extended bubble close and small. If you have an extended bubble arrangement you can invite those people to your home. It is important to protect your bubble if you extend it. If anyone in your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Even if you or people in your bubble have been vaccinated, it is important to self-isolate and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call your Healthline or your doctor for advice. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau or extended family to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. You can drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries at the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Events or gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthday parties, weddings, funerals and tangihanga. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 Events and entertainment at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to: 50 people if you are meeting indoors 100 people if you are meeting outdoors. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil union ceremonies at Alert Level 2 Worship and faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 50 people attending — if the gathering is indoors, and less than 100 people attending — if the gathering is outdoors. record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, wash or sanitise your hands and wear a face covering if needed. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. You can extend your household bubble to 2 or more homes to bring in close whānau, caregivers, or people who live alone or may be isolated. Everyone who is over 18 needs to agree to the extended bubble. Keep your extended bubble close and small. If you have an extended bubble arrangement you can invite those people to your home. It is important to protect your bubble if you extend it. If anyone in your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Even if you or people in your bubble have been vaccinated, it is important to self-isolate and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call your Healthline or your doctor for advice. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau or extended family to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. You can drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries at the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Events or gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthday parties, weddings, funerals and tangihanga. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 Events and entertainment at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Moving, buying and selling your home --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you are moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house from an Alert Level 2 to an Alert Level 4 region. You legally must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You cannot move house from an Alert Level 4 to an Alert Level 2 region, unless you are required to by a Court Order. You must carry evidence of your reason to travel — for example, a copy of your Court Order. Travelling across an Alert Level boundary At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 50 people indoors, and 100 people outdoors. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. If you visit someone else's home, keep a record of where you went, and who you came into contact with. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. At Alert Level 3 you can move house if you are moving or relocating home permanently. You should carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company if you are moving to another Alert Level 3 region. Movers will need to keep 2 metres apart from you. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. If you are moving house to an area that is at Alert Level 3, you cannot travel through an Alert Level 4 area. If you use a moving company to move in and out of an Alert Level 3 region, the movers will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen remotely. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they need to keep 2 metres away at all times. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you or anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, you cannot carry out any property inspections. You can do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. At the end of the tenancy, the landlord and tenant should not do the final property inspection together as would be usual practice. We recommend tenants take photos of the property’s condition before leaving instead. At Alert Level 3, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) At Alert Level 4, everyone must stay in their current home or accomodation. You can only move house if you: have a court order, or you need to use a temporary or emergency home — for example if you need care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. If you do have to move, you must follow all Alert Level 4 rules. You cannot hire a removal service. If your tenancy is ending during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about getting an extension. If you have signed a new tenancy agreement and you are due to move in during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about postponing the start date. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. You can only move house under extreme circumstances, for example for care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or lower. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen virtually. You can contact a real estate agent by phone, video conference or email, but you cannot meet with them face to face. At Alert Level 4, property inspections cannot take place in person. If you are a landlord, we recommend you wait until Alert Level 1 or 2 to inspect your property or do a virtual inspection if the tenant agrees. You can have a tradesperson come to your home for urgent maintenance or repairs. Non urgent repairs and maintenance cannot happen. At Alert Level 4, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you are moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house from an Alert Level 2 to an Alert Level 4 region. You legally must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You cannot move house from an Alert Level 4 to an Alert Level 2 region, unless you are required to by a Court Order. You must carry evidence of your reason to travel — for example, a copy of your Court Order. Travelling across an Alert Level boundary At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 50 people indoors, and 100 people outdoors. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. If you visit someone else's home, keep a record of where you went, and who you came into contact with. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house if you are moving or relocating home permanently. You should carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company if you are moving to another Alert Level 3 region. Movers will need to keep 2 metres apart from you. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. If you are moving house to an area that is at Alert Level 3, you cannot travel through an Alert Level 4 area. If you use a moving company to move in and out of an Alert Level 3 region, the movers will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen remotely. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they need to keep 2 metres away at all times. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you or anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, you cannot carry out any property inspections. You can do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. At the end of the tenancy, the landlord and tenant should not do the final property inspection together as would be usual practice. We recommend tenants take photos of the property’s condition before leaving instead. At Alert Level 3, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, everyone must stay in their current home or accomodation. You can only move house if you: have a court order, or you need to use a temporary or emergency home — for example if you need care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. If you do have to move, you must follow all Alert Level 4 rules. You cannot hire a removal service. If your tenancy is ending during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about getting an extension. If you have signed a new tenancy agreement and you are due to move in during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about postponing the start date. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. You can only move house under extreme circumstances, for example for care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or lower. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen virtually. You can contact a real estate agent by phone, video conference or email, but you cannot meet with them face to face. At Alert Level 4, property inspections cannot take place in person. If you are a landlord, we recommend you wait until Alert Level 1 or 2 to inspect your property or do a virtual inspection if the tenant agrees. You can have a tradesperson come to your home for urgent maintenance or repairs. Non urgent repairs and maintenance cannot happen. At Alert Level 4, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Private social gatherings --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your gathering. You can travel to any region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a party. There are also no rules around physical distancing. But COVID-19 is still around and we all need to be ready in case it reappears in our community. There are some simple things you can do to stay safe and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Do not go to a party or social gathering if you are unwell or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Do not host a gathering or party if you or anyone you live with is unwell. Wash and sanitise your hands regularly. Keep a record of the people you come into contact with, and scan in everywhere you go. At Alert Level 2, you can host or attend a gathering of up to: 50 in any defined indoor space, and 100 people in any defined outdoor space. Defined spaces for events The indoor and outdoor gathering limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. You do not have to wear a face covering when going to a party or private social gathering, but we encourage you to wear one. Remind your guests to stay home if they are sick. Your guests will need to physically distance if they do not know each other. When deciding on how many people to invite, think about the space you have so people can comfortably stay 1 metre apart. If you are hosting a gathering at your own home, you do not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. Arrange tables and chairs to allow for physical distancing. Plan activities so people can distance safely. Provide hand sanitizer or soap so guests can wash their hands. Serve food and drinks individually rather than having shared platters. Try to avoid shared utensils. If possible, limit the number of people handling or serving food. Let your guests know what steps you are taking to make sure your gathering is as safe as possible. You can hire an entire venue, such as a bar or restaurant, for a private event, but you must only have 50 guests indoors, or 100 guests outdoors. Staff are not included in the guest limit. You must have ways for guests to record their visit, such as a QR code poster for them to scan, or another safe and secure way to manually record their contact details. Your guests do not need to keep apart from each other. Your guests can move freely and they do not need to be seated or served at tables. Staff at the venue will need to wear face coverings if food and drink is being served. Stay home if you are unwell or if you have been asked to isolate. Try to keep 1 metre away from people you do not know. Avoid congregating or gathering at entrances or in small shared spaces such as the bathroom. If you need to pay for your food or drinks, use contactless payment options if possible. Limit physical contact with people who are not your close whānau or friends If you are attending a gathering at a public venue, scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Avoid sharing food and drinks with people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay in our bubble. The safest way to celebrate a special occasion with friends and wh ānau who are outside our bubble is t o do it virtually . At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble.  Private social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes gatherings in your home and in public spaces. You can only celebrate with people in your household bubble. We encourage you to connect virtually with your friends and wh ānau to celebrate special events. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your gathering. You can travel to any region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a party. There are also no rules around physical distancing. But COVID-19 is still around and we all need to be ready in case it reappears in our community. There are some simple things you can do to stay safe and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Do not go to a party or social gathering if you are unwell or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Do not host a gathering or party if you or anyone you live with is unwell. Wash and sanitise your hands regularly. Keep a record of the people you come into contact with, and scan in everywhere you go. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can host or attend a gathering of up to: 50 in any defined indoor space, and 100 people in any defined outdoor space. Defined spaces for events The indoor and outdoor gathering limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. You do not have to wear a face covering when going to a party or private social gathering, but we encourage you to wear one. Remind your guests to stay home if they are sick. Your guests will need to physically distance if they do not know each other. When deciding on how many people to invite, think about the space you have so people can comfortably stay 1 metre apart. If you are hosting a gathering at your own home, you do not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. Arrange tables and chairs to allow for physical distancing. Plan activities so people can distance safely. Provide hand sanitizer or soap so guests can wash their hands. Serve food and drinks individually rather than having shared platters. Try to avoid shared utensils. If possible, limit the number of people handling or serving food. Let your guests know what steps you are taking to make sure your gathering is as safe as possible. You can hire an entire venue, such as a bar or restaurant, for a private event, but you must only have 50 guests indoors, or 100 guests outdoors. Staff are not included in the guest limit. You must have ways for guests to record their visit, such as a QR code poster for them to scan, or another safe and secure way to manually record their contact details. Your guests do not need to keep apart from each other. Your guests can move freely and they do not need to be seated or served at tables. Staff at the venue will need to wear face coverings if food and drink is being served. Stay home if you are unwell or if you have been asked to isolate. Try to keep 1 metre away from people you do not know. Avoid congregating or gathering at entrances or in small shared spaces such as the bathroom. If you need to pay for your food or drinks, use contactless payment options if possible. Limit physical contact with people who are not your close whānau or friends If you are attending a gathering at a public venue, scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Avoid sharing food and drinks with people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay in our bubble. The safest way to celebrate a special occasion with friends and wh ānau who are outside our bubble is t o do it virtually . --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble.  Private social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes gatherings in your home and in public spaces. You can only celebrate with people in your household bubble. We encourage you to connect virtually with your friends and wh ānau to celebrate special events. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Shopping and services --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access the following goods and services at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets Dairies Foodbanks and Meals on Wheels Service stations Pharmacies Some liquor stores Food delivery services — My Food Bag, Hello Fresh Self-service laundries This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal care services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services. A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. At Alert Level 4, you can only ask a tradesperson to carry out urgent maintenance or repairs. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from customers by 2 metres. Working safely at Alert Level 2 All customers legally must wear a face covering in supermarkets and all retail stores. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must wear a face covering while at work and keep 2 metres apart from their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. At Alert Level 2, you can renew your driver license and sit a driving test. Mechanics and vehicle testing stations can also open. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household and wear a face covering. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. Food banks will continue to remain open at Alert Level 3. All other retail stores can open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. You'll need to wear a face covering when going in store to shop. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. Most goods ordered online can be delivered in a contactless way to your doorstep. Make sure you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone delivering your order. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If you are self-isolating, phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. If you are sick, call and reschedule. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check with your local council for information about recycling. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) At Alert Level 4, supermarkets will continue to stay open to allow people to buy food and groceries. Dairies and petrol stations will also remain open. They can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pies from a warmer. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one-in, one-out" policy. You legally must wear a face covering when going to the supermarket, or visiting any store that is open to customers during Alert Level 4. Liquor stores will close, unless they are within a Licensing Trust Area with a monopoly and operate with a strict "one-in, one-out" policy. Supermarkets will continue to sell wine and beer. Food delivery from supermarkets, bakeries and uncooked food suppliers is allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes supermarket home delivery, uncooked food parcels from charitable organisations and subscription food boxes — for example, My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. You will not be able to get cooked food delivered — unless you have been referred to a cooked food delivery service by the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board, or ACC —  for example, Meals on Wheels. Ordering, payment and delivery must be contactless and meet general health guidelines such as physical distancing and hygiene. At Alert Level 4, halal butchers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. At Alert Level 4, greengrocers and fishmongers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. Food banks will continue to operate at Alert Level 4. Food banks must operate a "one-in, one-out" policy. They can sell food prepared on the premises, but you must take it away to eat later. At Alert Level 4, some retail stores can sell essential non-food consumer products. These include items to help you work or study from home, items to help you remain healthy and safe while staying in your bubble — for example, bedding, whiteware or appliances, medicinal and hygiene products and items that help you stay connected with family and whānau. All orders will be contactless, including payment and delivery. Find out more information about essential non-food consumer products (external link) At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. At Alert Level 4, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. At Alert Level 4, veterinary services can operate but cannot have customers on the premises. Businesses offering pet care services, such as dog walking or dog grooming, cannot operate. You can have a tradesperson come to your home to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Non-urgent repairs or maintenance work should be postponed until Alert Level 4 restrictions have lifted. Tradespeople and other workers are encouraged to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your home. If you do need a tradesperson to visit, you can keep yourself safe by keeping 2 metres away from them, and reducing physical contact by paying for the service online. Home-based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for information about recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. All deliveries will be contactless. Self-service laundries can stay open, but you need to stay 2 metres away from others. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you are delivering food for a neighbour, friend or family member, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. All deliveries must be local and contactless. If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Online MyMSD (external link) Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) . --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access the following goods and services at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets Dairies Foodbanks and Meals on Wheels Service stations Pharmacies Some liquor stores Food delivery services — My Food Bag, Hello Fresh Self-service laundries This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal care services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services. A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. At Alert Level 4, you can only ask a tradesperson to carry out urgent maintenance or repairs. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from customers by 2 metres. Working safely at Alert Level 2 All customers legally must wear a face covering in supermarkets and all retail stores. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must wear a face covering while at work and keep 2 metres apart from their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. At Alert Level 2, you can renew your driver license and sit a driving test. Mechanics and vehicle testing stations can also open. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household and wear a face covering. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. Food banks will continue to remain open at Alert Level 3. All other retail stores can open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. You'll need to wear a face covering when going in store to shop. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. Most goods ordered online can be delivered in a contactless way to your doorstep. Make sure you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone delivering your order. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If you are self-isolating, phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. If you are sick, call and reschedule. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check with your local council for information about recycling. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, supermarkets will continue to stay open to allow people to buy food and groceries. Dairies and petrol stations will also remain open. They can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pies from a warmer. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one-in, one-out" policy. You legally must wear a face covering when going to the supermarket, or visiting any store that is open to customers during Alert Level 4. Liquor stores will close, unless they are within a Licensing Trust Area with a monopoly and operate with a strict "one-in, one-out" policy. Supermarkets will continue to sell wine and beer. Food delivery from supermarkets, bakeries and uncooked food suppliers is allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes supermarket home delivery, uncooked food parcels from charitable organisations and subscription food boxes — for example, My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. You will not be able to get cooked food delivered — unless you have been referred to a cooked food delivery service by the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board, or ACC —  for example, Meals on Wheels. Ordering, payment and delivery must be contactless and meet general health guidelines such as physical distancing and hygiene. At Alert Level 4, halal butchers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. At Alert Level 4, greengrocers and fishmongers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. Food banks will continue to operate at Alert Level 4. Food banks must operate a "one-in, one-out" policy. They can sell food prepared on the premises, but you must take it away to eat later. At Alert Level 4, some retail stores can sell essential non-food consumer products. These include items to help you work or study from home, items to help you remain healthy and safe while staying in your bubble — for example, bedding, whiteware or appliances, medicinal and hygiene products and items that help you stay connected with family and whānau. All orders will be contactless, including payment and delivery. Find out more information about essential non-food consumer products (external link) At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. At Alert Level 4, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. At Alert Level 4, veterinary services can operate but cannot have customers on the premises. Businesses offering pet care services, such as dog walking or dog grooming, cannot operate. You can have a tradesperson come to your home to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Non-urgent repairs or maintenance work should be postponed until Alert Level 4 restrictions have lifted. Tradespeople and other workers are encouraged to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your home. If you do need a tradesperson to visit, you can keep yourself safe by keeping 2 metres away from them, and reducing physical contact by paying for the service online. Home-based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for information about recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. All deliveries will be contactless. Self-service laundries can stay open, but you need to stay 2 metres away from others. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you are delivering food for a neighbour, friend or family member, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. All deliveries must be local and contactless. --- Section Separator --- If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Online MyMSD (external link) Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) . --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Sports and recreation --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you are unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you are sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. Guidelines for sport and recreation at Alert Level 2 | Sport NZ (external link) Using DOC facilities at Alert Level 2 (external link) At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You will need to keep 2 metres apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Personal trainers or coaches are encouraged to wear a face covering as they are in contact with many people. All workers must keep 2 metres apart from customers and clients using the services. You should wear a face covering whenever possible, but it is not a requirement when exercising and playing sports. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. At Alert Level 2, team sports events can continue. These are limited to 50 people in indoors venues and 100 people at outdoor venues. The 100 person limit includes players and spectators. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. You do not need to wear a face covering when participating in team sports. If a sports ground has more than 1 field, you can play multiple games at the same time, as long as each group is separated. Groups should try not to mix with each other, or share common facilities such as changing rooms at the same time. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. If you are watching the event, stand 2 metres away from others. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Ski fields can open at Alert Level 2, and you can travel anywhere within an Alert Level 1 or 2 region to go skiing or snowboarding. We encourage you to wear a face covering in places where it is difficult to keep a safe distance from others — for example in lift lines, on the chairlift and in the cafe area. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can be at a skifield, but you may choose to limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Skifields must follow the public health guidelines for businesses. This includes: Customer facing staff in indoor areas must wear a face covering — for example, cafes, retail or ski hire. Displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and having an alternate way for customers to record their visit. Limiting indoor cafes and restaurants to 50 people — people must be seated to be served. No more than 100 people in outdoor seating areas — people must be seated to eat and drink. Keeping to physical distancing guidelines — customers must stay 1 metre apart in cafes and restaurants, and 2 metres apart in retail areas — for example at ski hire. Keeping up good hygiene and cleaning practices. Wear a face covering wherever possible. You must wear a face covering in all indoor areas — for example, in cafes or in the retail store. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. If you are using mountain transport — for example, buses or shuttles, you need to wear a face covering. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or record your details for contact tracing. Follow the physical distancing rules when using indoor areas. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared or rental equipment. Stay home if you are unwell. Follow the advice of the ski field — they may have additional rules to keep you safe. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Rules for gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you are experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you are an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you are not experienced, do not surf. tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. Do not go back-country tramping. mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you are experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. Do not go on tracks that are grade 3 or above. swimming — in safe local spots. Do not swim far from shore. horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. playing golf. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms or you have been asked to isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Guidelines for sport and recreation at Alert Level 3 | Sport NZ (external link) Any activities that may expose you to danger or may require search and rescue services are not permitted. Regardless of your personal competency or experience, if an incident was to occur, and this would typically require search and rescue, then that activity is not permitted. This means that you should not participate in: flying manned planes mountaineering rock climbing snowsports in the back country water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving team sports and training with people outside of your household bubble. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You should stay in areas readily accessible from your home, either on foot or by vehicle, and you must stick to your bubble. You should not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you are out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. At Alert Level 3, playgrounds are closed. At Alert Level 3, indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 3, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it is close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. At Alert Level 4, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example to a park but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. You can protect yourself and your whānau by: using sanitiser or washing your hands with soap and water before you leave home and after you arrive home keeping 2 metres away from anyone outside of your household bubble when out exercising. You do not need to wear a face covering when exercising, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. Make sure you: do not meet people who are not in your bubble to exercise avoid touching and using high touch areas like park benches or gates tell someone in your bubble where you are going and how long you plan to be gone for. Take a mobile phone with you so you can be contacted or contact others if you need to. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Guidelines for sport and recreation at Alert Level 4 | Sport NZ (external link) If you have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials, you cannot leave home to exercise. The people you live with are allowed to leave home to exercise if they do not have any COVID-19 symptoms. Make sure they keep 2 metres away from others and avoid any physical contact. If you are unsure if you can leave home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving to a park. Walk your dog on a leash so you can keep a safe distance from others. Your dog is part of your household bubble. This means your dog should only be walked with people who are in your bubble. Do not meet up with friends and whānau outside of your bubble to walk your dog together. Professional dog walking services cannot operate during Alert Level 4. We recommend you do not go horse riding to reduce the risk of an accident. If you do need to ride your horse, do it with people from your household bubble, and within the boundaries of the property where it is kept. Do not transport your horse by float to ride somewhere else. You should also use your own grooming kit, tack and other equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. You can travel to care for your horse, for example to provide it with food and water, if there is no alternative and you are complying with any region-specific travel measures. We recommend you carry proof of your reason to travel, for example documentation showing where the horse is kept. You can travel to look after your bees if your hives are not on the property where you live, and you comply with any region-specific travel measures. Try to limit your travel for urgent welfare reasons, for example to manage disease. Use your own equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. Information about looking after your animals and pets | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 4, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you are unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you are sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. Guidelines for sport and recreation at Alert Level 2 | Sport NZ (external link) Using DOC facilities at Alert Level 2 (external link) At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You will need to keep 2 metres apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Personal trainers or coaches are encouraged to wear a face covering as they are in contact with many people. All workers must keep 2 metres apart from customers and clients using the services. You should wear a face covering whenever possible, but it is not a requirement when exercising and playing sports. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. At Alert Level 2, team sports events can continue. These are limited to 50 people in indoors venues and 100 people at outdoor venues. The 100 person limit includes players and spectators. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. You do not need to wear a face covering when participating in team sports. If a sports ground has more than 1 field, you can play multiple games at the same time, as long as each group is separated. Groups should try not to mix with each other, or share common facilities such as changing rooms at the same time. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. If you are watching the event, stand 2 metres away from others. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Ski fields can open at Alert Level 2, and you can travel anywhere within an Alert Level 1 or 2 region to go skiing or snowboarding. We encourage you to wear a face covering in places where it is difficult to keep a safe distance from others — for example in lift lines, on the chairlift and in the cafe area. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can be at a skifield, but you may choose to limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Skifields must follow the public health guidelines for businesses. This includes: Customer facing staff in indoor areas must wear a face covering — for example, cafes, retail or ski hire. Displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and having an alternate way for customers to record their visit. Limiting indoor cafes and restaurants to 50 people — people must be seated to be served. No more than 100 people in outdoor seating areas — people must be seated to eat and drink. Keeping to physical distancing guidelines — customers must stay 1 metre apart in cafes and restaurants, and 2 metres apart in retail areas — for example at ski hire. Keeping up good hygiene and cleaning practices. Wear a face covering wherever possible. You must wear a face covering in all indoor areas — for example, in cafes or in the retail store. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. If you are using mountain transport — for example, buses or shuttles, you need to wear a face covering. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or record your details for contact tracing. Follow the physical distancing rules when using indoor areas. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared or rental equipment. Stay home if you are unwell. Follow the advice of the ski field — they may have additional rules to keep you safe. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Rules for gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you are experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you are an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you are not experienced, do not surf. tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. Do not go back-country tramping. mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you are experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. Do not go on tracks that are grade 3 or above. swimming — in safe local spots. Do not swim far from shore. horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. playing golf. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms or you have been asked to isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Guidelines for sport and recreation at Alert Level 3 | Sport NZ (external link) Any activities that may expose you to danger or may require search and rescue services are not permitted. Regardless of your personal competency or experience, if an incident was to occur, and this would typically require search and rescue, then that activity is not permitted. This means that you should not participate in: flying manned planes mountaineering rock climbing snowsports in the back country water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving team sports and training with people outside of your household bubble. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You should stay in areas readily accessible from your home, either on foot or by vehicle, and you must stick to your bubble. You should not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you are out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. At Alert Level 3, playgrounds are closed. At Alert Level 3, indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 3, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it is close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example to a park but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. You can protect yourself and your whānau by: using sanitiser or washing your hands with soap and water before you leave home and after you arrive home keeping 2 metres away from anyone outside of your household bubble when out exercising. You do not need to wear a face covering when exercising, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. Make sure you: do not meet people who are not in your bubble to exercise avoid touching and using high touch areas like park benches or gates tell someone in your bubble where you are going and how long you plan to be gone for. Take a mobile phone with you so you can be contacted or contact others if you need to. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Guidelines for sport and recreation at Alert Level 4 | Sport NZ (external link) If you have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials, you cannot leave home to exercise. The people you live with are allowed to leave home to exercise if they do not have any COVID-19 symptoms. Make sure they keep 2 metres away from others and avoid any physical contact. If you are unsure if you can leave home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving to a park. Walk your dog on a leash so you can keep a safe distance from others. Your dog is part of your household bubble. This means your dog should only be walked with people who are in your bubble. Do not meet up with friends and whānau outside of your bubble to walk your dog together. Professional dog walking services cannot operate during Alert Level 4. We recommend you do not go horse riding to reduce the risk of an accident. If you do need to ride your horse, do it with people from your household bubble, and within the boundaries of the property where it is kept. Do not transport your horse by float to ride somewhere else. You should also use your own grooming kit, tack and other equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. You can travel to care for your horse, for example to provide it with food and water, if there is no alternative and you are complying with any region-specific travel measures. We recommend you carry proof of your reason to travel, for example documentation showing where the horse is kept. You can travel to look after your bees if your hives are not on the property where you live, and you comply with any region-specific travel measures. Try to limit your travel for urgent welfare reasons, for example to manage disease. Use your own equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. Information about looking after your animals and pets | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 4, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Weddings and civil unions --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a wedding, civil union or reception. Do not go to a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate. This includes the couple, attendees, and anyone working or involved in the ceremony or reception. At Alert Level 2, there are different rules on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony, depending on if the venue is indoors or outdoors. If your wedding or civil union ceremony is indoors — for example, at a church, mosque or other faith-based institution, or at a private home, up to 50 people can attend. If your wedding or civil union ceremony is outdoors, up to 100 people can attend. The gathering limits do not include people working at the wedding — for example, servers. If you are serving food or drinks, provide table service if you can. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table. Serve food individually if possible so guests do not have to share utensils or plates. People working at a wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face covering and should try to keep a safe distance from the guests. If you are planning to host a wedding reception or party at a restaurant, pub or other public venue, please follow the establishment’s safety measures. Your guests can dance, sing or perform at the wedding or civil union service. People should try to keep a safe distance from each other. Do not attend a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are feeling unwell. If there are people at the wedding you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your contact details to the organiser. This is to help support contact tracing. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. Keep up good health behaviours like regular handwashing and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. Your host should provide hand sanitiser around the venue and make sure there is plenty of soap available for everyone to wash their hands. Try not to share food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a wedding or civil union. If the wedding or civil union is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor gathering limit of 50 people and the outdoor gathering limit of 100 people applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. You can travel into and out of an Alert Level 4 area (in 1 trip) to attend a wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 4 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Public toilets open at Alert Level 4 in Auckland (external link) At Alert Level 3, you can get married but the wedding or civil union ceremony must be limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit includes: the 2 people getting married the person conducting the wedding or civil union the 2 witnesses anyone working at the service — for example, a photographer. No food or drink can be served at a wedding or civil union ceremony. If you are attending a wedding or civil union, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoid physical contact with people outside your bubble, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging. Do not attend a wedding or civil union if you are unwell. You can travel to attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in the same or neighbouring region within the Alert Level 3 area. Gathering together for weddings and civil union ceremonies is not allowed at Alert Level 4. We recommend you delay your wedding or civil union ceremony until Alert Level 4 restrictions ease. All venues must have ways for people, including staff and guests, to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If your wedding or reception is at a private home, you do not need to keep a record of the people attending if everyone knows each other. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a wedding, civil union or reception. Do not go to a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate. This includes the couple, attendees, and anyone working or involved in the ceremony or reception. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are different rules on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony, depending on if the venue is indoors or outdoors. If your wedding or civil union ceremony is indoors — for example, at a church, mosque or other faith-based institution, or at a private home, up to 50 people can attend. If your wedding or civil union ceremony is outdoors, up to 100 people can attend. The gathering limits do not include people working at the wedding — for example, servers. If you are serving food or drinks, provide table service if you can. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table. Serve food individually if possible so guests do not have to share utensils or plates. People working at a wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face covering and should try to keep a safe distance from the guests. If you are planning to host a wedding reception or party at a restaurant, pub or other public venue, please follow the establishment’s safety measures. Your guests can dance, sing or perform at the wedding or civil union service. People should try to keep a safe distance from each other. Do not attend a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are feeling unwell. If there are people at the wedding you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your contact details to the organiser. This is to help support contact tracing. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. Keep up good health behaviours like regular handwashing and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. Your host should provide hand sanitiser around the venue and make sure there is plenty of soap available for everyone to wash their hands. Try not to share food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a wedding or civil union. If the wedding or civil union is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor gathering limit of 50 people and the outdoor gathering limit of 100 people applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. You can travel into and out of an Alert Level 4 area (in 1 trip) to attend a wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 4 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Public toilets open at Alert Level 4 in Auckland (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can get married but the wedding or civil union ceremony must be limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit includes: the 2 people getting married the person conducting the wedding or civil union the 2 witnesses anyone working at the service — for example, a photographer. No food or drink can be served at a wedding or civil union ceremony. If you are attending a wedding or civil union, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoid physical contact with people outside your bubble, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging. Do not attend a wedding or civil union if you are unwell. You can travel to attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in the same or neighbouring region within the Alert Level 3 area. --- Section Separator --- Gathering together for weddings and civil union ceremonies is not allowed at Alert Level 4. We recommend you delay your wedding or civil union ceremony until Alert Level 4 restrictions ease. --- Section Separator --- All venues must have ways for people, including staff and guests, to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If your wedding or reception is at a private home, you do not need to keep a record of the people attending if everyone knows each other. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Information on what Alert Level 2 means for you. Information on what Alert Level 3 means for you. Information on what Alert Level 4 means for you. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Use this tool to select an activity and find out what you must do at Alert Level 2, including when to wear a face covering, keep your distance from others and scan in. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Information on what Alert Level 2 means for you. Information on what Alert Level 3 means for you. Information on what Alert Level 4 means for you. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Use this tool to select an activity and find out what you must do at Alert Level 2, including when to wear a face covering, keep your distance from others and scan in.
Home Alert Levels and updates About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. COVID-19 Alert Level system tables Likely the disease is not contained. There is sustained and intensive community transmission. Outbreaks are widespread. Stay home in your bubble. No travel is allowed except for necessities or to undertake safe recreational activities. You must work and learn from home. No gatherings are allowed. All public and education facilities close. If you work for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. Businesses must close except for necessities (for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations) and lifeline utilities. Green grocers, butchers, bakeries, and fishmongers can sell uncooked food items online and must deliver all orders. As in Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities as well as reprioritisation of healthcare services is possible. Members of a household or shared bubble may view or accompany the deceased in a funeral home, cemetery or faith-based institution subject to strict conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 4 Medium risk of community transmission – active but managed clusters. There are multiple cases of community transmission. There are multiple active clusters in multiple regions. Stay home and keep your bubble small. You can expand to reconnect with close family/whānau, enable caregiving, or support isolated people. This extended bubble legally must remain exclusive. Travel is still restricted, so stay local. Inter-regional travel is highly limited with limited permissions. You can travel for work, school, to pick up necessities and good purchased in a contactless way or undertake low-risk recreational activities. Work and learn from home if you can. Only people who cannot work from home should return to businesses that can safely open under Alert Level 3. As at Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Gatherings of up to 10 people are only allowed for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and record keeping are legally required. Food and drink cannot be served. When you leave home, keep a 2-metre distance from others when in public or 1-metre in controlled environments like workplaces, where practical. Customers are only allowed inside specific businesses: supermarkets, banks, primary produce retailers, pharmacies, petrol stations or hardware stores providing goods to trade customers, or if it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open if they trade in a contactless way. Public facilities remain closed. Early childhood centres and schools will open for students up to Year 10 for those who cannot learn from home. Healthcare services should use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. You may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 Low risk of community transmission within applied area. There could be limited community transmission. There are active clusters in more than 1 region. You can connect with friends and whānau in person, socialise in groups and go shopping and travel domestically, if following public health guidance. You can return to the place where you work or learn but alternative ways of working are still encouraged. Businesses, schools, early learning services, tertiary education providers and public facilities, such as museums, libraries and pools can now all open with additional health measures in place. Gatherings of up to 50 people indoors or 100 people outdoors are allowed including weddings, funerals and tangihanga. Mandatory record keeping (as in Alert Level 1) and physical distancing are legally required. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated and seated. Maximum of 50 people indoors or 100 people outdoors in a defined space. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have up to 50 people indoors and 100 people outdoors. You can have more than 50 people in an event facility, but only if the people are in separate "defined spaces", and there should not be direct airflow between the defined spaces. Health and disability care services can operate as normally as possible. Keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know in public and places like retail stores, libraries, gyms, and museums. Keep 1 metres apart from people in other places like office buildings and factories, and in places where there is a cap on numbers, like cinemas and hospitality. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (for example, those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and older people) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home, unless fully vaccinated. You may work, if you agree with your employer that you can do so safely. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and – where practical– physical distancing. Gyms — 2m physical distancing, outdoor teams sport — no physical distancing. Public transport must be seated only. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport, airplanes (including in departure points such as train/bus stations) and in a taxi or ride-share vehicle visiting a healthcare or aged care facility (other than for a patient) inside retail businesses, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores and public venues — such as museums and libraries. visiting the public areas within courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: as a driver of a taxi or ride-share vehicle at close contact businesses, for example barbers, beauticians and hairdressers in a public facing role at a hospitality venue, for example a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub at retail businesses, such as supermarkets, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores in the public areas of courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters at indoor public facilities, for example libraries and museums (but not swimming pools). Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. There could be sporadic imported cases. There could be isolated local transmission in New Zealand. All businesses, facilities, schools, education providers and workplaces can open. NZ COVID Tracer QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport. The following places legally must have systems and processes to ensure visitors keep a record of where they have been (whether via the NZ COVID Tracer app or otherwise), including healthcare facilities, aged care facilities, close-contact businesses, hospitality venues, public facilities, exercise facilities and social gatherings such as weddings, funerals and tangihanga. In all other places, we encourage you to keep track of everywhere you have been, as this helps contact tracing to identify any potential spread of COVID-19. There are no restrictions on personal movement or gatherings. In all other settings you are encouraged to maintain a record of where you have been. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport and airplanes (excluding inter-island ferries and school buses). exclusions apply for people with disabilities or mental health conditions Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. COVID-19 Alert Level system tables --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. There is sustained and intensive community transmission. Outbreaks are widespread. Stay home in your bubble. No travel is allowed except for necessities or to undertake safe recreational activities. You must work and learn from home. No gatherings are allowed. All public and education facilities close. If you work for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. Businesses must close except for necessities (for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations) and lifeline utilities. Green grocers, butchers, bakeries, and fishmongers can sell uncooked food items online and must deliver all orders. As in Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities as well as reprioritisation of healthcare services is possible. Members of a household or shared bubble may view or accompany the deceased in a funeral home, cemetery or faith-based institution subject to strict conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Medium risk of community transmission – active but managed clusters. There are multiple cases of community transmission. There are multiple active clusters in multiple regions. Stay home and keep your bubble small. You can expand to reconnect with close family/whānau, enable caregiving, or support isolated people. This extended bubble legally must remain exclusive. Travel is still restricted, so stay local. Inter-regional travel is highly limited with limited permissions. You can travel for work, school, to pick up necessities and good purchased in a contactless way or undertake low-risk recreational activities. Work and learn from home if you can. Only people who cannot work from home should return to businesses that can safely open under Alert Level 3. As at Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Gatherings of up to 10 people are only allowed for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and record keeping are legally required. Food and drink cannot be served. When you leave home, keep a 2-metre distance from others when in public or 1-metre in controlled environments like workplaces, where practical. Customers are only allowed inside specific businesses: supermarkets, banks, primary produce retailers, pharmacies, petrol stations or hardware stores providing goods to trade customers, or if it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open if they trade in a contactless way. Public facilities remain closed. Early childhood centres and schools will open for students up to Year 10 for those who cannot learn from home. Healthcare services should use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. You may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Low risk of community transmission within applied area. There could be limited community transmission. There are active clusters in more than 1 region. You can connect with friends and whānau in person, socialise in groups and go shopping and travel domestically, if following public health guidance. You can return to the place where you work or learn but alternative ways of working are still encouraged. Businesses, schools, early learning services, tertiary education providers and public facilities, such as museums, libraries and pools can now all open with additional health measures in place. Gatherings of up to 50 people indoors or 100 people outdoors are allowed including weddings, funerals and tangihanga. Mandatory record keeping (as in Alert Level 1) and physical distancing are legally required. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated and seated. Maximum of 50 people indoors or 100 people outdoors in a defined space. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have up to 50 people indoors and 100 people outdoors. You can have more than 50 people in an event facility, but only if the people are in separate "defined spaces", and there should not be direct airflow between the defined spaces. Health and disability care services can operate as normally as possible. Keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know in public and places like retail stores, libraries, gyms, and museums. Keep 1 metres apart from people in other places like office buildings and factories, and in places where there is a cap on numbers, like cinemas and hospitality. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (for example, those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and older people) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home, unless fully vaccinated. You may work, if you agree with your employer that you can do so safely. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and – where practical– physical distancing. Gyms — 2m physical distancing, outdoor teams sport — no physical distancing. Public transport must be seated only. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport, airplanes (including in departure points such as train/bus stations) and in a taxi or ride-share vehicle visiting a healthcare or aged care facility (other than for a patient) inside retail businesses, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores and public venues — such as museums and libraries. visiting the public areas within courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: as a driver of a taxi or ride-share vehicle at close contact businesses, for example barbers, beauticians and hairdressers in a public facing role at a hospitality venue, for example a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub at retail businesses, such as supermarkets, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores in the public areas of courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters at indoor public facilities, for example libraries and museums (but not swimming pools). Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. There could be sporadic imported cases. There could be isolated local transmission in New Zealand. All businesses, facilities, schools, education providers and workplaces can open. NZ COVID Tracer QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport. The following places legally must have systems and processes to ensure visitors keep a record of where they have been (whether via the NZ COVID Tracer app or otherwise), including healthcare facilities, aged care facilities, close-contact businesses, hospitality venues, public facilities, exercise facilities and social gatherings such as weddings, funerals and tangihanga. In all other places, we encourage you to keep track of everywhere you have been, as this helps contact tracing to identify any potential spread of COVID-19. There are no restrictions on personal movement or gatherings. In all other settings you are encouraged to maintain a record of where you have been. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport and airplanes (excluding inter-island ferries and school buses). exclusions apply for people with disabilities or mental health conditions Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you are sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you are sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings From 11:59pm Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure a people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it is still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in our community. Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you are sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you are sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure a people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it is still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in our community. --- Section Separator --- Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support --- Section Separator --- If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Auckland is at Alert Level 4, and will move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 21 September 2021. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. The Government will review this on Monday 20 September. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can go to work, and all businesses and services can open but legally must follow public health rules. Early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Use this simple tool to check what you must do in common situations when it comes to wearing a face covering, keeping your distance and scanning in. What you must do at different Alert Levels We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. They are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. In some situations, you legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 or over. For example on public transport, inside retail businesses and public venues. Face covering advice and requirements From 11:59pm on Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been It is important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You can: use public transport, but to help with physical distancing you must be seated — you are not permitted to stand use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. You legally must wear a face covering when using public transport, airplanes (including in departure points such as train/bus stations) and in a taxi or ride-share vehicle. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 2 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 2 Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Alert Level boundary map Visitors and tourists can use international air services to travel home. International travel and transit You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. If you are unwell or at risk, you should not leave your home at all. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Businesses can open at Alert Level 2, but they legally must follow public health rules, including record keeping. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. Some workers legally must wear a face covering. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Face covering advice and requirements Business travel across an Alert Level boundary is only allowed for permitted reasons. If your employees need to cross the Alert Level boundary, they will need evidence that their travel is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Alert Level boundary map At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. You can go instore to shop. You legally must wear a face covering, and must keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Shopping and services at Alert Level 2 Access to food or essential items At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau. Gatherings are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged-care facility, but there may be restrictions. You legally must wear a face covering when visiting an aged-care facility. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, you can hold social gatherings including weddings, civil union ceremonies, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. These are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. Event and entertainment facilities including cinemas, stadiums and concert venues can open. There can be up to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. You can have more than 50 people in an event facility, but only if the people are in separate 'defined spaces'. There should not be direct airflow between the defined spaces. Public facilities such as libraries, swimming pools and museums can open. You legally must wear a face covering when visiting (except for swimming pools), and must keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. People who work in customer-facing roles in hospitality venues legally must wear a face covering. Customers can take off their masks so they can eat or drink. There can be up to 50 people in an indoor space, and up to 100 people in an outdoor space. Because there is a cap on the number of people who can be present, customers and workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. Bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. Dance floors are closed. Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 50 people if the service is indoors, and 100 people if the service is outdoors. Worship and faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate, unveiling ceremonies/hura kōhatu and other faith-based or religious ceremonies can go ahead. These are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Worship and faith based gatherings at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Education at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, tamariki (children) can travel between their parents' or caregiver's home under a shared custody arrangement. If you or your child are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate, please stay home. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. Public parks and playgrounds are open. Indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. Team sports events can continue, but are limited to 50 people at indoor venues and 100 people at outdoor venues. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, health and disability services will open and operate as normal, where possible. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Healthcare at Alert Level 2 The COVID-19 vaccination programme will continue at Alert Level 2. COVID-19 vaccines If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 2, you should do what you would normally do. Emergencies at all Alert Levels Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If someone is in danger, call 111 . Help and support is available if you are experiencing violence If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions at Alert Level 2. Advice for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- Auckland is at Alert Level 4, and will move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 21 September 2021. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. The Government will review this on Monday 20 September. --- Section Separator --- We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can go to work, and all businesses and services can open but legally must follow public health rules. Early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Use this simple tool to check what you must do in common situations when it comes to wearing a face covering, keeping your distance and scanning in. What you must do at different Alert Levels We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. They are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. In some situations, you legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 or over. For example on public transport, inside retail businesses and public venues. Face covering advice and requirements From 11:59pm on Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been It is important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You can: use public transport, but to help with physical distancing you must be seated — you are not permitted to stand use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. You legally must wear a face covering when using public transport, airplanes (including in departure points such as train/bus stations) and in a taxi or ride-share vehicle. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 2 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 2 Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Alert Level boundary map Visitors and tourists can use international air services to travel home. International travel and transit You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. If you are unwell or at risk, you should not leave your home at all. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open at Alert Level 2, but they legally must follow public health rules, including record keeping. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. Some workers legally must wear a face covering. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Face covering advice and requirements Business travel across an Alert Level boundary is only allowed for permitted reasons. If your employees need to cross the Alert Level boundary, they will need evidence that their travel is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Alert Level boundary map --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. You can go instore to shop. You legally must wear a face covering, and must keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Shopping and services at Alert Level 2 Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau. Gatherings are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged-care facility, but there may be restrictions. You legally must wear a face covering when visiting an aged-care facility. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can hold social gatherings including weddings, civil union ceremonies, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. These are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. Event and entertainment facilities including cinemas, stadiums and concert venues can open. There can be up to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. You can have more than 50 people in an event facility, but only if the people are in separate 'defined spaces'. There should not be direct airflow between the defined spaces. Public facilities such as libraries, swimming pools and museums can open. You legally must wear a face covering when visiting (except for swimming pools), and must keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. People who work in customer-facing roles in hospitality venues legally must wear a face covering. Customers can take off their masks so they can eat or drink. There can be up to 50 people in an indoor space, and up to 100 people in an outdoor space. Because there is a cap on the number of people who can be present, customers and workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. Bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. Dance floors are closed. Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 50 people if the service is indoors, and 100 people if the service is outdoors. Worship and faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, funerals, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate, unveiling ceremonies/hura kōhatu and other faith-based or religious ceremonies can go ahead. These are limited to 50 people in an indoor space, and 100 people in an outdoor space. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Worship and faith based gatherings at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Education at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, tamariki (children) can travel between their parents' or caregiver's home under a shared custody arrangement. If you or your child are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate, please stay home. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. Public parks and playgrounds are open. Indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. Team sports events can continue, but are limited to 50 people at indoor venues and 100 people at outdoor venues. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, health and disability services will open and operate as normal, where possible. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Healthcare at Alert Level 2 The COVID-19 vaccination programme will continue at Alert Level 2. COVID-19 vaccines If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 2, you should do what you would normally do. Emergencies at all Alert Levels Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If someone is in danger, call 111 . Help and support is available if you are experiencing violence --- Section Separator --- If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions at Alert Level 2. Advice for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. Everyone should work from home if they can. Children and young people should learn from home. You legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. Keep your bubble as small as possible. If you need to, you can expand it to bring in close family, isolated people or caregivers. At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, close family, isolated people or caregivers. You must keep your bubble as small as possible. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. They are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. In some situations, you legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 or over. For example on public transport, inside retail businesses and public venues. Face covering advice and requirements From 11:59pm Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been It is important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example, going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area You can use public transport, taxis and ride-share services for transport for essential personal movement. Air travel is strictly limited at Alert Level 3. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 3 You can travel in a private vehicle only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot work or learn from home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings (weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga). You can use active transport like walking and biking if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household bubble. Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 3 Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. International travel and transit You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. If you are unwell or at risk, you should not leave your home at all. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Everyone should work from home if they can. Businesses that require close physical contact cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes physical distancing, having extra hygiene measures and contactless options for ordering, pick-up, delivery and payment. How to do business at Alert Level 3 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 — Employment New Zealand (external link) Business travel across an Alert Level boundary is only allowed for permitted reasons. If your employees need to cross the Alert Level boundary, they will need evidence that their travel is permitted. Business travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, only the following businesses and services can have customers on their premises: supermarkets dairies butchers fishmongers greengrocers food banks petrol stations self-service laundries banks and financial institutions hardware stores — for trade customers only health services pharmacies accommodation services courts and tribunals social and community-based services to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support emergency services Parliamentary services passenger services, including public transport by road, rail, air or sea school hostels. All other retail stores can only open for contactless pick-up and delivery. Shopping and services at Alert Level 3 We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Learn more about accessing food and essential items At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, close family, isolated people or caregivers. You must keep your bubble as small as possible. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings and civil union ceremonies , funerals and tangihanga, with up to 10 people. No food or drinks can be served, and physical distancing, face coverings and record keeping are required. All entertainment venues, public facilities and attractions such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 3 Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. These services are limited to 10 people — this includes the faith-based leader officiating the wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga. Services can be livestreamed. Worship and faith based gatherings at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you can hold a funeral, tangihanga or burial, but these are limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Early learning centres can open to provide childcare for children whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools and kura will be open for children in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your children at home if you have other caregiving options. Education at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement. Only travel if you need to. Do not travel if you or your child are unwell. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 3 Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 3 and 4 boundary At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. Sport and recreation at Alert Level 3 Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will be open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Healthcare at Alert Level 3 The COVID-19 vaccination programme will continue at Alert Level 3. COVID-19 vaccines If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 3, you should do what you would normally do. Emergencies at all Alert Levels Family, whānau and sexual violence can escalate at this time. If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If someone is in danger, call 111 . Help and support is available if you are experiencing violence If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 3 advice for at-risk people (external link) The Ministry of Health has information for older people and their family and whānau. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. Everyone should work from home if they can. Children and young people should learn from home. You legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. Keep your bubble as small as possible. If you need to, you can expand it to bring in close family, isolated people or caregivers. At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, close family, isolated people or caregivers. You must keep your bubble as small as possible. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. They are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. In some situations, you legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 or over. For example on public transport, inside retail businesses and public venues. Face covering advice and requirements From 11:59pm Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been It is important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example, going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area You can use public transport, taxis and ride-share services for transport for essential personal movement. Air travel is strictly limited at Alert Level 3. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 3 You can travel in a private vehicle only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot work or learn from home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings (weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga). You can use active transport like walking and biking if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household bubble. Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 3 Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. International travel and transit You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. If you are unwell or at risk, you should not leave your home at all. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Everyone should work from home if they can. Businesses that require close physical contact cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes physical distancing, having extra hygiene measures and contactless options for ordering, pick-up, delivery and payment. How to do business at Alert Level 3 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 — Employment New Zealand (external link) Business travel across an Alert Level boundary is only allowed for permitted reasons. If your employees need to cross the Alert Level boundary, they will need evidence that their travel is permitted. Business travel at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, only the following businesses and services can have customers on their premises: supermarkets dairies butchers fishmongers greengrocers food banks petrol stations self-service laundries banks and financial institutions hardware stores — for trade customers only health services pharmacies accommodation services courts and tribunals social and community-based services to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support emergency services Parliamentary services passenger services, including public transport by road, rail, air or sea school hostels. All other retail stores can only open for contactless pick-up and delivery. Shopping and services at Alert Level 3 We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Learn more about accessing food and essential items --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, close family, isolated people or caregivers. You must keep your bubble as small as possible. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings and civil union ceremonies , funerals and tangihanga, with up to 10 people. No food or drinks can be served, and physical distancing, face coverings and record keeping are required. All entertainment venues, public facilities and attractions such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. These services are limited to 10 people — this includes the faith-based leader officiating the wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga. Services can be livestreamed. Worship and faith based gatherings at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can hold a funeral, tangihanga or burial, but these are limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Early learning centres can open to provide childcare for children whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools and kura will be open for children in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your children at home if you have other caregiving options. Education at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement. Only travel if you need to. Do not travel if you or your child are unwell. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 3 Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 3 and 4 boundary --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. Sport and recreation at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will be open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Healthcare at Alert Level 3 The COVID-19 vaccination programme will continue at Alert Level 3. COVID-19 vaccines If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 3, you should do what you would normally do. Emergencies at all Alert Levels Family, whānau and sexual violence can escalate at this time. If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If someone is in danger, call 111 . Help and support is available if you are experiencing violence --- Section Separator --- If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support --- Section Separator --- You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 3 advice for at-risk people (external link) The Ministry of Health has information for older people and their family and whānau. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Auckland is at Alert Level 4, and will move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 21 September 2021. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. The Government will review this on Monday 20 September. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. Everyone must now stay home in their bubble. You can only leave home for essential personal movement, like to: shop for groceries access necessary healthcare get a COVID-19 test or vaccination exercise in your local area go to work if you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you cannot work from home. Only make physical contact with those in your household bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Do not worry, at Alert Level 4 you can access all the essentials you need, including medicine and food. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. They are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. In some situations, you legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 or over. For example on public transport, inside retail businesses and public venues. Face covering advice and requirements From 11:59pm Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been It is important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Personal movement at Alert Level 4 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. Learn more about permitted movement at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only travel for essential personal movement, like to get food or medicine, to get tested or vaccinated, or to go to work if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. You can use public transport, taxis and ride-share services for transport for essential personal movement. Air travel is strictly limited at Alert Level 4. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 4 You can use a private vehicle for essential personal movement. You should only travel in your vehicle with people from your household bubble. You can use active transport like walking and biking if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household bubble. Private vehicles at Alert Level 4 Walking, cycling and other active travel at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, travel between regions is heavily restricted. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. You can still travel to New Zealand, and managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is still operating. Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket, contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you cannot get a ticket, please contact your country's embassy. International travel and transit You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. If you are unwell or at-risk, you should not leave your home at all. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Only certain businesses may remain open to the public at Alert Level 4. Some other businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 without customers on their premises. If a business is not sure if it provides Alert Level 4 services or products, it should close. If you are a business or worker in a non-Alert-Level-4 business, you may still work — as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. How to do business at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 — Employment New Zealand (external link) Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Supermarkets, dairies, pharmacies are open, and you can go in store to shop. Dairies will operate a strict "one-in, one-out" policy. Dairies and petrol stations can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pies from a warmer. Food banks are open. They will operate on a strict "one-in, one-out" policy. If possible, try to send 1 person per household to do the shopping, and make sure you practise 2 metre physical distancing and good hygiene while out. Wear a face covering when out shopping. Grocery food deliveries — such as My Food Bag and Hello Fresh — will continue, as long as the food is not pre-cooked. All deliveries must be contactless. Whole-food contactless deliveries such as butchers, bakeries and greengrocers can continue. Takeaway services must close. At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. Some services are continuing at Alert Level 4, including: rubbish collection — check your local council website for recycling postal services and courier delivery self-service laundries petrol stations. Public transport, regional air travel and ferries are mostly restricted to those involved in Alert Level 4 services and freight. Some public transport will be available for essential personal movement, like going to the supermarket, doctor or a vaccination appointment. Shopping and services at Alert Level 4 Public transport at Alert Level 4 Alert Level 4 businesses and services If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask family, whānau, friends or neighbours to drop off goods and groceries for you. All deliveries must be local and contactless. If you are delivering supplies, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering. If you get your supplies delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put the supplies away. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a local friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. Learn more about accessing food and essential items You can only have physical contact with your household bubble. You cannot invite friends and whānau to your home, and events and gatherings cannot go ahead. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 4 All public facilities must close. This includes: bars restaurants cafes gyms cinemas pools museums libraries playgrounds. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. Worship and faith based gatherings at Alert Level 4 Funeral directors can continue working at Alert Level 4. However, you cannot gather together for funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support if you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 All schools and early childhood education centres are closed. Schools will be providing information directly to all parents about what this means for them. Education at Alert Level 4 During Alert Level 4 , tamariki ( children ) whose parents or caregivers have a: shared care arrangement or, a court order under the Care of Children Act 2004 saying who has the day-to-day care of a child at specified times Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you cannot work from home and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. Learn more about shared custody and childcare during Alert Level 4 Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 3 and 4 boundary You can go for a walk, run or bike ride in your local area. Exercise is good for your mental health. If you do, it must be on your own, or with your household bubble. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example to a park but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. Keep a 2 metre distance from others. Do not do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. If you are unwell, do NOT go outside. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 Health and medical facilities will remain open while we are at Alert Level 4. You can still get medical help if you need it. This includes healthcare services, such as Healthline, GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. However, if you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you MUST phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Healthcare at Alert Level 4 The COVID-19 vaccination programme has resumed, though some vaccination sites may still be closed. If you have a vaccination booked please go as planned – unless you have been contacted and told it has been cancelled. When booking appointments remember to stay local and book as close to home as possible. Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 4 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Physical distancing requirements at the sites means there might be fewer people vaccinated. T he reduced capacity means we may need to postpone some appointments. If we need to postpone your appointment you will be contacted by the Ministry of Health, your DHB, or healthcare provider. If you do not hear anything, please come to your appointment as scheduled. COVID-19 vaccines If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 4, you should do what you would normally do. Emergencies at Alert Level 4 Family, whānau and sexual violence can escalate at this time. If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If someone is in danger, call 111 . Help and support is available if you are experiencing violence If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support People at higher risk  in particular should stay at home and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 4 advice for at-risk people The Ministry of Health has updated its information for older people who live alone or in a retirement village on creating a support bubble/buddy during Alert Level 4. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland is at Alert Level 4, and will move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 21 September 2021. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. The Government will review this on Monday 20 September. --- Section Separator --- We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. Everyone must now stay home in their bubble. You can only leave home for essential personal movement, like to: shop for groceries access necessary healthcare get a COVID-19 test or vaccination exercise in your local area go to work if you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you cannot work from home. Only make physical contact with those in your household bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Do not worry, at Alert Level 4 you can access all the essentials you need, including medicine and food. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. They are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. In some situations, you legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 or over. For example on public transport, inside retail businesses and public venues. Face covering advice and requirements From 11:59pm Tuesday 7 September, many businesses and locations will be required to take steps to ensure people can easily make a record when they visit. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Keep track of where you have been It is important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy --- Section Separator --- Personal movement at Alert Level 4 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. Learn more about permitted movement at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only travel for essential personal movement, like to get food or medicine, to get tested or vaccinated, or to go to work if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. You can use public transport, taxis and ride-share services for transport for essential personal movement. Air travel is strictly limited at Alert Level 4. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 4 You can use a private vehicle for essential personal movement. You should only travel in your vehicle with people from your household bubble. You can use active transport like walking and biking if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household bubble. Private vehicles at Alert Level 4 Walking, cycling and other active travel at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, travel between regions is heavily restricted. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. You can still travel to New Zealand, and managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is still operating. Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket, contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you cannot get a ticket, please contact your country's embassy. International travel and transit You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. If you are unwell or at-risk, you should not leave your home at all. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Only certain businesses may remain open to the public at Alert Level 4. Some other businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 without customers on their premises. If a business is not sure if it provides Alert Level 4 services or products, it should close. If you are a business or worker in a non-Alert-Level-4 business, you may still work — as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. How to do business at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 — Employment New Zealand (external link) Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets, dairies, pharmacies are open, and you can go in store to shop. Dairies will operate a strict "one-in, one-out" policy. Dairies and petrol stations can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pies from a warmer. Food banks are open. They will operate on a strict "one-in, one-out" policy. If possible, try to send 1 person per household to do the shopping, and make sure you practise 2 metre physical distancing and good hygiene while out. Wear a face covering when out shopping. Grocery food deliveries — such as My Food Bag and Hello Fresh — will continue, as long as the food is not pre-cooked. All deliveries must be contactless. Whole-food contactless deliveries such as butchers, bakeries and greengrocers can continue. Takeaway services must close. At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. Some services are continuing at Alert Level 4, including: rubbish collection — check your local council website for recycling postal services and courier delivery self-service laundries petrol stations. Public transport, regional air travel and ferries are mostly restricted to those involved in Alert Level 4 services and freight. Some public transport will be available for essential personal movement, like going to the supermarket, doctor or a vaccination appointment. Shopping and services at Alert Level 4 Public transport at Alert Level 4 Alert Level 4 businesses and services If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask family, whānau, friends or neighbours to drop off goods and groceries for you. All deliveries must be local and contactless. If you are delivering supplies, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering. If you get your supplies delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put the supplies away. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a local friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. Learn more about accessing food and essential items --- Section Separator --- You can only have physical contact with your household bubble. You cannot invite friends and whānau to your home, and events and gatherings cannot go ahead. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- All public facilities must close. This includes: bars restaurants cafes gyms cinemas pools museums libraries playgrounds. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 Public events and entertainment at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. Worship and faith based gatherings at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors can continue working at Alert Level 4. However, you cannot gather together for funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support if you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- All schools and early childhood education centres are closed. Schools will be providing information directly to all parents about what this means for them. Education at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- During Alert Level 4 , tamariki ( children ) whose parents or caregivers have a: shared care arrangement or, a court order under the Care of Children Act 2004 saying who has the day-to-day care of a child at specified times Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you cannot work from home and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. Learn more about shared custody and childcare during Alert Level 4 Personal travel to cross an Alert Level 3 and 4 boundary --- Section Separator --- You can go for a walk, run or bike ride in your local area. Exercise is good for your mental health. If you do, it must be on your own, or with your household bubble. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example to a park but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. Keep a 2 metre distance from others. Do not do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. If you are unwell, do NOT go outside. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Health and medical facilities will remain open while we are at Alert Level 4. You can still get medical help if you need it. This includes healthcare services, such as Healthline, GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. However, if you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you MUST phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Healthcare at Alert Level 4 The COVID-19 vaccination programme has resumed, though some vaccination sites may still be closed. If you have a vaccination booked please go as planned – unless you have been contacted and told it has been cancelled. When booking appointments remember to stay local and book as close to home as possible. Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 4 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Physical distancing requirements at the sites means there might be fewer people vaccinated. T he reduced capacity means we may need to postpone some appointments. If we need to postpone your appointment you will be contacted by the Ministry of Health, your DHB, or healthcare provider. If you do not hear anything, please come to your appointment as scheduled. COVID-19 vaccines If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 4, you should do what you would normally do. Emergencies at Alert Level 4 Family, whānau and sexual violence can escalate at this time. If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If someone is in danger, call 111 . Help and support is available if you are experiencing violence --- Section Separator --- If you are having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Find services and contact information for when you need help. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. There are helplines available if you need help. You can also find support, advice and information about COVID-19, or you can contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Contact and support --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk  in particular should stay at home and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 4 advice for at-risk people The Ministry of Health has updated its information for older people who live alone or in a retirement village on creating a support bubble/buddy during Alert Level 4. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Data and statistics available Vaccine data COVID-19 cases Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 33 New community cases 33 New community cases 955 Total community cases 955 Total community cases 3 New cases at the border 3 New cases at the border 614 Total active cases in New Zealand 614 Total active cases in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 2,862,765 First dose administered 2,862,765 First dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered 68% Eligible population with 1 dose 68% Eligible population with 1 dose 35% Eligible population with 2 doses 35% Eligible population with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm MBIE publishes a daily snapshot of d ata and statistics about MIQ in New Zealand. 171,333 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 171,333 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 --- Section Separator --- Last updated 12 September 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 3,207,124 Registered users 3,207,124 Registered users 2,600,276 Poster scans in the last 24 hours 2,600,276 Poster scans in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Auckland is at Alert Level 4. It will move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 21 September 2021. The Government will confirm this decision on Monday 20 September. What to do at Alert Level 4 What to do at Alert Level 3 Find out the Alert Level for your region --- Section Separator --- The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. This will be reviewed by the Government on Monday 20 September. What to do at Alert Level 2 Find out the Alert Level for your region --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested.
Home Alert Levels and updates History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group.
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response; and Provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response; and Provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. --- Section Separator --- Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member --- Section Separator --- Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. --- Section Separator --- Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] The group has provided Hon Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health (Public Health), their advice about the future of the elimination strategy and the phased re-opening of borders. Read the group's advice to Minister Verrall [PDF, 312 KB] Published at 5am on Wednesday 11 August 2021. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. --- Section Separator --- Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- The group has provided Hon Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health (Public Health), their advice about the future of the elimination strategy and the phased re-opening of borders. Read the group's advice to Minister Verrall [PDF, 312 KB] Published at 5am on Wednesday 11 August 2021. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 1-10 of 535 updates 13 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 13 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Sep 2021 The Government is responding to need for support in Auckland and has committed a further $10 million to help people access food and other essential items. 12 Sep 2021 The Government has secured an extra half a million doses of Pfizer COVID-19 vaccines from Denmark that will start arriving in New Zealand within days. 12 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 11 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Sep 2021 Businesses affected by higher Alert Levels will be able to apply for further Resurgence Support Payments. 10 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 10 Sep 2021 The first stage of one-way quarantine-free travel with Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu will commence in October. 09 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm.
A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident.
A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020.
A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453.
Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453.
The Government’s Resurgence Support Payment was initially intended as a one-off payment to help businesses with their fixed costs, such as rent. Ministers have agreed to provide additional payments to recognise the effects of an extended period of Alert Level restrictions. This will provide cashflow to businesses and support them in meeting their ongoing obligations as we come down Alert Levels and while Auckland remains at higher Alert Levels than the rest of the country. --- Section Separator --- Applications for the next Resurgence Support Payment will open on Friday 17 September. Ministers have agreed that there will be another 2 payments after that, 3 weeks apart, so long as the conditions that trigger the Resurgence Support Payment apply. Inland Revenue encourages those applying to ensure the accuracy of the information they provide, as if it is not correct that will delay processing. Businesses can apply for the payment by logging into their MyIR account. Further information can be found on the Inland Revenue website. The scheme will be available until all of New Zealand returns to Alert Level 1 for 1 month. --- Section Separator --- The payment and eligibility criteria to qualify for the Resurgence Support Payment remain the same, including that those applying must experience at least a 30% decline in revenue over 7 days (for this payment commencing 8 September) as a result of being at Alert Level 2 or higher. --- Section Separator --- The payment includes a core per business rate of $1,500, plus $400 per employee, up to a total of 50 full-time equivalents (FTEs) which is a maximum payment of $21,500. Businesses with more than 50 FTEs can still apply but cannot get more than the maximum payment. --- Section Separator --- For more information on COVID-19 business support measures, including full eligibility criteria: COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment | ird.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme| ird.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link)
Cabinet decided that all of New Zealand south of the Auckland boundary would move to Alert Level 3 at 11.59pm on Tuesday 31 August. Northland will move to Alert Level 3 on Thursday 2 September (subject to negative test results), and Auckland will remain at Alert Level 4 until 13 September. Unlike the scheme that operated in March last year, this Wage Subsidy scheme requires businesses to reapply for each fortnightly payment. Applications for the first Wage Subsidy August 2021 payment close at 11.59pm on Thursday 2 September. The application process for the second two-week payment will commence from 9am on Friday 3 September. The criteria will be the same as for the initial application. Businesses and self-employed people must fill out the application form on the MSD website, agree to a new declaration and meet all eligibility criteria. The core settings of the Wage Subsidy Scheme remain the same. It is available to eligible businesses wherever they are in New Zealand on the same payment rates, two-week lump sum payments, and the need to show a 40 percent decline in revenue. The revenue test period will move forward two weeks from the period used for the first Wage Subsidy August 2021 payment, but the comparator period will remain the same. The revenue test period for a second payment will be the 14 consecutive days from 31 August to 13 September 2021. Employers and those self-employed are once again encouraged to ensure the accuracy of the information they provide, as that will delay processing if it isn’t correct. Businesses can also apply for the Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment as appropriate, as well as the Resurgence Support Payment, which is a one-off payment administered by Inland Revenue to help meet fixed costs. For more information on COVID-19 business support measures, including full eligibility criteria: Work and Income (external link) Inland Revenue (external link)
Businesses, organisations and self-employed people affected by the recent increase to Alert Level 4 can now apply online for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (RSP). The RSP is intended to help businesses with costs like rent or fixed costs during higher alert levels and is one of a suite of measures to support firms and workers and provide certainty. To qualify for the RSP, applicants must experience at least a 30% decline in revenue over 7 days as a result of the increase in Alert Levels, as well as other eligibility criteria. The one-off payment is available to any business in New Zealand that meets the criteria. Businesses can apply for the RSP at the same time as the Wage Subsidy Scheme. The payment includes a core per business rate of $1,500, plus $400 per employee, up to a total of 50 full-time equivalents (FTEs) which is a maximum payment of $21,500. Businesses with more than 50 FTEs can still apply but cannot get more than the maximum payment. The scheme will be available until all of New Zealand returns to Alert Level 1 for one month. The Small Business Cashflow Scheme (SBCS) is also available to support small to medium businesses and organisations struggling with a loss of actual revenue due to COVID-19 where a business has not accessed this before or where the initial payment has been repaid. Inland Revenue encourages those applying to ensure the accuracy of the information they provide, as if it is not correct that will delay processing. Businesses can also apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme and the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (LSS), which is available to help businesses pay workers who have been told to self-isolate and cannot work from home. The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment (STAP) is also available if your workers have to stay at home while waiting for a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home. The rates for both the LSS and STAP rise today in line with the Wage Subsidy increase. Economic activity is back to pre-COVID levels thanks to our strong public health response. These principles will continue to guide our approach to supporting the economy at this challenging time. Businesses can apply for the payment by logging into their MyIR account. Further information can be found on the Inland Revenue website. For more information on COVID-19 business support measures, including full eligibility criteria: Resurgence Support Payment — Inland Revenue website (external link) Small Business Cashflow Scheme — Inland Revenue website (external link) Wage Subsidy — Work and Income website (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream. --- Section Separator --- Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference
Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Transcript of the 4pm media conference --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Transcript of the 10:30am media conference
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream. --- Section Separator --- Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream. --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 33 Number of new cases identified at the border: 3 Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Minister of Finance Grant Robertson Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister of Defence Peeni Henare Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Grant Robertson Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Watch the livestream.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream. --- Section Separator --- There are 70 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today; all are in Auckland. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 347. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream. --- Section Separator --- There are 83 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today. 82 are in Auckland 1 is in Wellington who is a close contact of an existing case and was in isolation. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 511. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 496 and in Wellington it is 15. The total number of active cases being managed in New Zealand is currently 551. There are 2 new cases in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson Director of Public Health Caroline McElnay You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- There are 53 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today. All 53 cases are in Auckland. This brings the total number of active cases in the community outbreak to 562. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 547 and in Wellington it is 15. The total number of active cases being managed in New Zealand is currently 603. There is one new case and one historical case of COVID-19 in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- There are 49 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today. All of these cases are in Auckland. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 612. One previously reported case has been reclassified as a border case. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 597 and in Wellington it is 15. All of the cases have or will be transferred safely to a quarantine facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. There are 566 cases that have been clearly epidemiologically-linked to another case or sub-cluster, and a further 46 for which links are yet to be fully established. There are currently seven epidemiologically-linked subclusters identified within this outbreak. The two largest clusters are the Mangere church cluster (308 confirmed cases), and the Birkdale Social Network cluster associated with Case A (78 confirmed cases). Of the current community cases, 33 cases are in hospital – 25 are in a stable condition on a ward and eight cases are in a stable condition in ICU. Two cases are in North Shore Hospital, 18 are in Middlemore Hospital, 12 are in Auckland City Hospital, and one is in Wellington Regional Hospital. There are appropriate isolation and infection prevention and control plans in place at all hospitals where these patients are being managed. The total number of active cases being managed in New Zealand is currently 651. There is one new case in recent returnees in a managed isolation facility. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Arden Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- There are 21 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today, all in Auckland. There are no new cases in managed isolation. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- There are 15 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today, all in Auckland. There is 1 new case in managed isolation. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield You can watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- There are 13 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today, all in Auckland. There are 2 new cases in managed isolation. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. --- Section Separator --- The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database.
To help provide certainty for the many senior secondary students eyeing up end of year exams, Education Minister Chris Hipkins has today laid out the criteria under which changes could be made to school qualifications. It includes re-introducing Learning Recognition Credits, and adjustments to NCEA endorsements and University Entrance to recognise the disruption COVID-19 can have. If schools and kura are disrupted by Alert Levels 3 or 4 for 20 or more school days, Learning Recognition Credits will become available at the same rates and levels as originally announced in 2020. If this threshold is met: students would be entitled to 1 extra Learning Recognition Credit for every 5 credits they earn towards their NCEA through assessment students working towards NCEA Level 1 could earn up to 10 additional credits, and students at NCEA Levels 2 or 3 would be eligible for up to 8 additional credits. If Alert Levels 3 or 4 are in place for a total of 20 or more school days, the thresholds for Certificate Endorsements, Course Endorsements and University Entrance will also be adjusted to reflect those announced in June last year. This means Course Endorsements would require 12 credits at Achieved, Merit or Excellence level, rather than 14. Students would still need to achieve at least 3 credits from external assessment and 3 from internal assessment, where these requirements usually apply. To receive a Certificate Endorsement, students would need to receive 46 credits at Merit or Excellence level, instead of the usual 50. For University Entrance, students would need to achieve 12 — rather than 14 — credits in each of 3 University Entrance Approved Subjects. Students would still need to attain NCEA Level 3 and meet literacy and numeracy requirements. Signalling these changes now is intended to give students confidence that they will continue to have a fair opportunity to attain NCEA, even if they need to spend more time away from the classroom. These changes are in addition to delays to end-of-year exam and portfolio submission dates, and other adjustments to assessments already in place.
"Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. To isolate at their usual home. To not go out to work, and remain isolated, until they are contacted by their national contact tracing service, and they receive further direction. This direction applies to the following people: any employees or contractors of 2 employers: Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. any visitors to those workplaces in the last 14 days, and any people who ordinary live with those employees, or contractors, or visitors. If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health
Since then, the demand for MIQ rooms in New Zealand has increased significantly due to the need to accommodate hundreds of COVID-19 cases from the community in MIQ facilities. Consequently, we continue to evaluate MIQ’s capacity in this rapidly changing environment. Within these constraints, one red flight from Sydney on Sunday 5 September has now been scheduled to bring back people who qualify for an emergency allocation of an MIQ voucher. With emergency allocations suspended for people in Australia since July, this brings Australia back in line with the rest of the world, where people have continued to have access to emergency allocations. People in Australia who have already applied and were granted an emergency allocation have been advised by MIQ that they are eligible and are being contacted to arrange ticketing for the flight. Emergency allocations of MIQ vouchers are still available for the Sunday 5 September flight from Sydney. Travellers who wish to apply for an emergency allocation should apply as soon as possible, carefully checking the eligibility criteria and providing the evidence required. Find out more and apply for an emergency allocation request (external link) People can apply until 5pm (NZST/3pm AEST) on Thursday 2 September. If people are unable to submit an application in time for this flight, we will continue to process emergency allocation applications and eligible people will be given priority on the next scheduled flight, which is still to be confirmed. All travellers on red flights must not have been at a location of interest in the previous 14 days and must present a negative pre-departure test when checking in at the airport. Eligible people who are booked on the flight this Sunday must also allow time to have their pre-departure test, to be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Due to the current situation in New Zealand, this flight is not open to the public for bookings and we are not yet in a position to open up MIQ vouchers and travel from Australia via further red flights. As the situation with COVID-19 becomes clearer over the coming weeks, decisions will then be made on future travel from Australia.
Teachers and support staff across all early learning services, kōhanga reo, kura, and state and state-integrated schools can now access free COVID-19 Employee Assistance Programme support. Our kaiako and teachers have been vital in supporting our learners during COVID-19 and have stepped up again to assist them and their whānau in this latest resurgence in our community. The education workforce has gone above and beyond to ensure our children and young people are supported while learning from home. They are playing an important role in our country’s COVID-19 response by looking after the education and wellbeing of our children. We need to look after their wellbeing at this difficult time as well. This service is being funded out of a $16 million Workforce Wellbeing Package. It will be accessible from 25 August 2021 to 25 November 2021. Each educator can have up to three confidential one-on-one counselling sessions online, or by phone, to support them while COVID-19 restrictions are in place. This is in addition to any existing services that an early learning service or a school already provides to their teachers and support staff. Everyone has their own way of dealing with stress. Having someone to talk to — may it be your family, whānau, friends, work colleagues, or via our Employment Assistance Programme — can help. All educators are encouraged to make use of all the wellbeing resources available to them, including this new support. We have overcome COVID-19 before and we can do it again. To our educators, parents and students across the country — please look after yourself, your families and each other. More information about the EAP service is available: Workforce Wellbeing Package – Education in New Zealand (external link) Find other wellbeing support from Ministry of Education (external link)
This latest tranche is targeted at the Auckland region, helping providers and organisations to distribute over 50,000 more food parcels, and 20,000 essential wellbeing packs. The government is focused on keeping New Zealanders safe from COVID-19. We are committed to also ensuring people, whānau and communities are able to continue accessing the support they need, especially households who are self-isolating. Since 17 August 2021, a total of $69.31 million in additional funding has been provided by Government agencies to support providers and organisations serving their communities. The Government’s response so far has recognised the need for whānau-centred support, iwi-led responses for their local community, as well as support for Māori, Pacific and disabled communities. In particular, the Pacific community in Auckland has been impacted by the current outbreak. They have made up over half of those having to self-isolate, resulting in entire support networks not being able to activate and mobilise. The Ministry for Social Development has developed strong relationships and established an approach to working with and supporting Pacific social service providers across Auckland. This includes working with MSD-funded Community Connectors who are embedded with Pacific providers to support the broader Pacific workforce network. This funding aims to support them and provide continuity through what is a challenging time, and as we stamp out COVID-19 from the community. The rapid public health response required to contain the spread of the Delta Variant of COVID-19 has highlighted the need to ensure an equally rapid welfare response. The Ministry for Social Development will continue to work with key agencies across the system to ensure that support is coordinated and targeted to areas and populations with the greatest need. We are committed to making sure our response to COVID-19 is rapid, coordinated and efficient, and ensuring people and our communities aren’t carrying the burden of lockdown alone.
The Government is increasing support for whānau through Whānau Ora to help with the current COVID-19 response. Delta has created new challenges for access to food and essential services and also requires more intensive responses to maintain whānau wellbeing. As a result it is important that additional funding is provided where it is most needed. Responding early to meet specific community needs will help keep whānau safe. The 3 Whānau Ora commissioning agencies will receive an immediate boost of $8.816 million to continue to provide direct and integrated support to hard-to-reach whānau presenting with complex and overlapping needs. A further $14.216 million will be distributed based on need as information on the impact of the current change in Alert Levels unfolds. This will support the work of Whānau Ora providers to meet the increased community need for support and services, including accessing vaccinations, testing and self-isolating spaces. The Ministry of Social Development is also making a $2 million fund immediately available to partner with iwi responding to critical unmet needs. The Ministry of Social Development has been in regular contact with our Māori provider and iwi partners. This fund recognises the potential for emerging need particularly in areas which may not have access to other forms of support during higher Alert Levels. Funding of $1 million, from the COVID-19 Response and Resilience Fund, will also be available to support iwi community responses and assist them to update pandemic response plans to take into account the new reality of the Delta variant. This support follows talks in the past fortnight with over 100 iwi leaders, marae chairs, and urban authorities. The message has been clear, that they are well placed and eager to help improve the uptake of vaccinations in their communities, but that they need assistance and resources. We all want to raise vaccination rates and protect ourselves and each other. Since the COVID-19 resurgence, Whānau Ora commissioning agencies have mobilised their provider and partner networks to redirect resources and operations to support immediate needs ranging from providing whānau with kai and hygiene packs to setting up hubs so whānau can access the support they need. Government will continue work to improve the interface between Whānau Ora and mainstream systems to better support whānau in the medium to longer-term. This will include a focus on driving vaccination uptake across Māori and Pacific communities and geographic locations. The Whānau Ora provider and partner network are well placed to support increased vaccination coverage across urban and rural areas. Under higher alert levels in 2020 a strong and effective community-led response to COVID-19, by Māori for Māori, demonstrated the importance of tino rangatiratanga, promoting social wellbeing by ensuring Māori retain and enhance their wellbeing. Māori have knowledge, capability and resources that Government needs, and are increasingly in a position to uniquely help the Crown meet its responsibilities. The nature of the Delta variant, and in particular its increased contagiousness, mean increased needs for some whānau. For example, the changed definition of 'contacts' to active cases means increasing the number of people who must isolate, and some need support to do so. The agencies are supporting whānau to: attend vaccination, testing and other health appointments contact whānau and kaumatua on their books to check if they need support increase communications across navigator and partner networks to keep whānau up to date with important health information.
This is the second and larger agreement the Government has entered into to purchase additional vaccines to meet the significantly increased demand through September before our large shipments land in October. These doses along with the 275,000 doses purchased from Spain last week provide an additional 775,000 to New Zealand’s vaccine supplies. There is now more than enough vaccine in the country to vaccinate at the world leading rates we were hitting earlier in the month. Every New Zealander not yet vaccinated is encouraged to do so as soon as possible. The Government is extremely grateful to Denmark for making these vaccines available to help protect Aotearoa New Zealand against the current Delta outbreak. Sincere gratitude is extended to Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen and her officials for their agreement and assistance to sell these doses to New Zealand. Thanks also to the European Commission for coordinating this purchase, as well as Belgium, for their role in producing the vaccine. Throughout the pandemic the team of 5 million has shown their commitment to keeping our communities safe. In 2020 we stayed home to save lives, in 2021 we need everyone to get vaccinated to protect family and loved ones and to prevent future lockdowns. 76% of people aged 12 and older are either booked or have received their first dose, but we can’t get complacent. Other countries with higher rates than this are still experiencing outbreaks, so we need to get vaccination rates up around the country and this extra supply will help with that. This extra supply means we can continue to roll out vaccines well ahead of plan, so that everyone in New Zealand over the age of 12 can be vaccinated as soon as possible for free. Book your vaccine now | Book My Vaccine (external link)
Cabinet met today to consider the settings and will meet again on Friday. Six days into the outbreak we are building a picture of Delta’s spread, however there remain a number of unanswered questions. Further time, testing and data is required before we can make alert level changes. In his recent report to the Government, Sir David Skegg said the Delta variant will be more difficult to control by testing and contact tracing alone, and we are already seeing that. That means the safest option for us all right now, is to hold the course for longer in Alert Level 4. A strong health approach has also proven to be the best economic approach as well. The setting for the rest of New Zealand outside of Auckland will be reviewed this Friday and Cabinet will be looking to see if any new cases emerge outside of Auckland, that wastewater results stay negative, and that contacts are identified, isolated and tested. Auckland continues to be the primary location of cases which is why its Alert Level 4 needs to be at least a full 14 day cycle. Auckland’s settings will be reviewed by Cabinet next Monday. It is possible to get on top of this. We just need to keep our efforts up, and keep following the rules, so that we are not in restrictions a moment longer than we need to be. Our plan has worked before and together we can make it work again. So please, stay strong, stay home, be kind. And let’s finish what we started.
The Government has agreed to a $26 million boost to support our Pacific communities in this current outbreak of the COVID-19 Delta variant. We know we need to get every eligible person in our communities vaccinated and this will help this effort. This investment will allow for more targeted and effective support to our Pacific communities as we continue to do everything in our power to eliminate the virus and to keep the people of Aotearoa New Zealand safe from COVID-19. The extra funding will go towards: Pacific health and disability services sustaining the response to the current outbreak scaling up mobile outreach and Pacific community vaccination services improving engagement and communications to reach specific ethnic groups within the Pacific community. This $26 million is a significant and much needed investment into our response. This will ensure that our Pacific health and disability sector have the resources they need both to continue delivering critical services, and to upscale further support for our aiga and communities. Our Pacific providers have proven time and time again, that they are an essential part of the Government’s response to this outbreak for our Pacific communities. In the August 2020 outbreak and today, they are the heroes on the frontline everyday out there keeping our families and communities safe. These providers are known and trusted by the communities that they both live and work in. They have the language skills and the cultural intelligence required for the most effective response. E fofo e le alamea le alamea, the solutions for our challenges lie within communities. The Government recognises that the Pacific health and disability sector needs to be supported to lead the response for our Pacific communities.
The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: oversight of all processes within the facilities provision of testing enforcement of rules logistical supply chains such as PPE coordination of relevant agencies standing up of new facilities continued oversight of repatriation flights accountability for those people who are in charge of each facility. “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: end to end induction process general security and safety of travellers provision of health services; and standardisation of procedures including COVID testing and screening. “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb.
The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. New Zealand already has a reporting system in place for monitoring reactions to any vaccine or medicine, which can be submitted by both patients and their healthcare professionals through the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). The Post Vaccine Symptom Check is another tool in our kete (basket). It is a proactive way to increase our data collection about reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. Up to 10% of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. A text message will be sent from the Ministry of Health 6 days after each dose of the vaccine and 43 days after the second dose, to ask whether you had any reactions to the vaccine. The first texts will be sent in the coming days. Participants can reply to the message for free by texting YES, NO or STOP to opt out. If the reply is YES, a unique URL will be sent via text, linking to a survey where participants are asked to provide more details about their reactions. We ask that everyone who receives a text message participates, even if they have not had a reaction. If you do not receive a text, you can report any reactions to the Pfizer vaccine through the CARM website or by calling Healthline, even if they are mild. The Post Vaccine Symptom Check will run daily for the remainder of the COVID-19 Immunisation Programme. Data collected from the survey will be grouped and anonymously displayed on the Medsafe website once there is enough data to report, likely by late-September. Responses to the survey are being captured for data collection purposes only and individual cases will not be followed up on by CARM. The Post Vaccine Symptom Check is an important data collection tool, but it does not replace advice from a healthcare professional. Most side effects of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine are mild and do not last long, however, if you feel unwell after your vaccination, speak to your healthcare professional for advice or call Healthline.
The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: increased security for transferring returnees to managed isolation facilities the standardisation of procedures across all facilities The introduction of better information for returnees — from flight boarding through to entry into New Zealand and their exit from managed isolation. Better information to communities where those facilities are located. Strengthening of demand forecasting, reporting functions and coordination between agencies. Health responses include: more staff in facilities improved model of care — including taking into account issues like mental health and addiction issues more clinical oversight to ensure a consistent quality of service in facilities monitoring to ensure there is consistency across facilities. “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] --- Section Separator --- At departure airport. Check in for flight — information on which town passenger will complete managed isolation in is provided On flight to New Zealand — passengers informed by PA of the town they will complete managed isolation in (whole flight goes to same town). On landing at the international terminal: Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). On landing at domestic terminal: All passengers on the flight are transferred into buses airside. Passengers wear PPE and practise physical distancing on the bus journey. On arrival at managed isolation facility Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Routine during stay in a managed isolation facility Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Specific activities Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. On departure Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs. Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs.
At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1
Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2
The first stage of one-way quarantine-free travel with Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu will commence in October, initially for Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) workers from those countries. We want to provide certainty to the horticulture industry that we are moving forward with safe quarantine-free travel for RSE workers in time for the upcoming picking season. We need to take a cautious approach to opening up quarantine-free travel with the Pacific. While Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu haven’t had any community cases of COVID-19 we know first-hand how quickly Delta can spread if it gets in. To minimise risk we are putting in place additional health measures for these workers. These include requirements to be vaccinated with at least 1 dose pre-departure, complete a period of self-isolation on arrival and return negative COVID-19 tests at Day 0 and Day 5. We are starting solely with RSE workers for several reasons. RSE workers come to New Zealand in a cohort, and stay in employer-arranged accommodation. This helps mitigate any additional risk from COVID-19 by ensuring they go into self-isolation in a pre-organised place immediately upon arrival. Up to 14,400 RSE workers normally come through New Zealand each year, with approximately 10,500 being in the country at peak harvesting times pre-COVID-19. Substantial planning has been under way both in New Zealand’s horticulture and viticulture sectors and in our partner countries for the arrival of these workers, with some incoming flights deferred in August and September because of New Zealand’s Alert Level 4 settings. We will be closely monitoring this first stage of one-way quarantine-free travel. Our intention remains to broaden eligibility for quarantine-free entry to New Zealand from these countries and Tokelau when we can be sure it is safe to do so. In the meantime, other people entering New Zealand from these countries will need to meet existing managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) requirements. Officials in New Zealand are working with partner Pacific countries and the industry on the final measures that need to be in place, with exact flight dates in October to be confirmed.
The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code
While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery. We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.
Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB]
Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said.
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. --- Section Separator --- The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: recovered charges do not exceed the actual costs of managed isolation and quarantine no upfront payment would be required there would be flexibility in how people could pay. Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) --- Section Separator --- The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: $3,100 per person in a room $950 for each additional adult, and $475 for each additional child sharing the room. The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Any New Zealander, who either: leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. Any temporary visa holder, unless: they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Family members travelling or isolating with people who do not have to pay charges (unless they are entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker). New Zealand citizens deported to New Zealand. Diplomats and official government representatives. Any person travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the accused in the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees and protected persons for their first entry into New Zealand after the charges come into force. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. --- Section Separator --- Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon.
This means those responsible for businesses and events will need to ensure people keep a record when they visit, either by scanning QR codes with the COVID-19 Tracer App or making a manual record. It is clear that when people use the app or manually sign in, rather than relying on memory, contact tracing can happen much more quickly. We know from our own and overseas examples that an outbreak of COVID-19 can be extremely difficult to trace and contain without people keeping a good record of where they have been and who they have come into contact with. So the Government is making it mandatory at the sorts of places where people gather consistently and in large numbers to ensure that people scan or sign in. This includes cafes, restaurants, bars, casinos and concerts, aged care, healthcare facilities (excluding patients), barbers, exercise facilities, nightclubs, libraries, courts, local and central government agencies, and social services providers with customer service counters. Those places where records are already kept and people are already required to sign in, like gyms and some workplaces, won’t need to adjust what they are already doing. Mandatory record keeping is currently required at social gatherings including when visiting a marae, at weddings, funerals, tangihanga and faith-based services at Alert Level 2. It will now be a requirement for those businesses and events that are permitted at any Alert Level. The obligation will be on the person responsible for the place or gathering to ensure people can scan or sign in. This will become effective seven days after any change in Alert Level settings that might allow more businesses to open or gatherings to go ahead. The Government wants to ensure businesses and those who may be organising a gathering or event have time to get this sorted. The Government understand this adds an extra responsibility for businesses and hosts, but it is necessary to help New Zealand maintain its COVID-19 elimination strategy and help us return to the freedoms we have enjoyed for the past year which so many other countries have not. As with masks and face coverings – encouraging people to wear one whenever they leave home and making it mandatory when visiting a business or service in Alert Level 4 – this will only apply to people 12 years and over. Face coverings, when used in combination with good record keeping, are two strong measures that will help in our defence against COVID-19.
The Government’s Resurgence Support Payment (RSP) has been updated to better support newly established businesses. The RSP is a one-off payment that helps businesses with costs like rent or fixed costs during higher alert levels. When this COVID-19 response scheme was first established last year the criteria was included that businesses had to have been operating for at least 6 months to be eligible for the payment. During an extended period at higher alert levels this rule is overly restrictive. As such Ministers with power to act have agreed to reduce the time required for a business to have been in operation to be eligible for the RSP, from 6 months to 1 month. These businesses will still be required to meet the other eligibility requirements under the scheme, such as demonstrating a 30% decline in revenue. Businesses will be able to apply under the new criteria from 8am on Thursday 9 September. Inland Revenue will communicate this change and contact any businesses who were declined for not meeting the 6 month test to advise them of the new criteria and invite them to reapply under the new settings. We have an economy that is operating at pre-COVID levels and unemployment down at 4% thanks to our strong health approach. We know that many businesses are doing it tough during these heightened alert levels. We encourage them to apply for the support that is available. We will also continue to assess the support schemes we have in place to ensure that we are doing all that we can. The Resurgence Support Payment includes a core per business rate of $1,500, plus $400 per employee, up to a total of 50 full-time equivalents (FTEs) which is a maximum payment of $21,500. Businesses with more than 50 FTEs can still apply but cannot get more than the maximum payment. The scheme will remain open for applications until all of New Zealand returns to Alert Level 1 for 1 month. Businesses can apply for the payment by logging into their MyIR account. They can also apply through the Ministry of Social Development, as appropriate, for the: Wage Subsidy Scheme Leave Support Scheme Short-Term Absence Payment. For more information on COVID-19 business support measures, including full eligibility criteria: Work and Income website (external link) COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (RSP) — Inland Revenue website (external link)
The deadline for applications via the MIQ website is 5pm NZST (3pm AEST) on Saturday 11 September. All travellers on red flights must stay in MIQ for 14 days; the normal rules around paying for the stay will apply. Following the Sydney-Auckland red flight on Sunday 5 September, when 93 people returned to New Zealand, a second flight will enable more people in urgent situations to come home. With emergency allocations suspended for people in Australia since July, this brings Australia back in line with the rest of the world, where people have continued to have access to emergency allocations. Although an announcement on the future of quarantine-free travel with Australia is expected later in September, people who are eligible for this flight on 15 September are encouraged to take this opportunity to return to New Zealand. All travellers on this flight must have the right to enter New Zealand, must have not been at a location of interest in the previous 14 days, and must present a negative pre-departure test when checking in at the airport. Eligible people who are booked on the 15 September flight must allow time to have their pre-departure test, to be taken within 72 hours of departure. Due to the current COVID-19 community outbreak in New Zealand, this flight is not open to the public for bookings so no-one should be contacting the airlines directly. Apply for an emergency allocation (external link) Learn more about pre-departure tests (external link)
Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date.
COVID-19 testing at the beginning of the outbreak focussed heavily on those who had contact with cases, were symptomatic or who had been in locations of interest. Now that the situation is changing, so is our approach to testing. We are seeing that in the falling testing numbers. Today’s testing numbers of 4,750 tests processed is our lowest figure since the outbreak.  Fewer new locations of interest and the lockdown’s impact on effectively stopping the spread of all respiratory illnesses have greatly reduced demand for testing. At this stage in the outbreak, our goals are to improve our confidence there is no undetected community transmission and to protect the rest of the country from possible COVID-19 leakage from the Auckland region. --- Section Separator --- Health services will maintain a network of testing sites available across Auckland to ensure timely access for treatment, including for our Maori and Pasifika communities. Auckland DHBs will continue to move some of our testing centres to areas where we’ve seen cases in the previous few days – particularly in South and West Auckland. The Ministry of Health will be working closely with relevant employers to support their essential workers in not coming to work if unwell and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- There will be more regular surveillance testing for healthcare workers who’ve cared for or worked in units with COVID-19 patients.  This will involve both immediate testing and ongoing surveillance testing. In addition, there will be a move to twice weekly testing for all workers in Auckland quarantine facilities. --- Section Separator --- Government agencies will also be working closely with employers who have workers who are crossing the Auckland boundary to put in place weekly testing of these workers. This is part of our overall efforts to fully control and end this Delta outbreak over the next few weeks. The Ministry of Health has started working with its partner agencies on engaging with employers and industries whose workers are affected. Because this is surveillance testing, people will not be required to stand down or stay at home while awaiting their result – unless of course they have symptoms. There is no cost for essential workers who get a test for this purpose. While the Ministry of Health, and partner agencies, are still working through the details, the key point is that essential workers crossing the Auckland border will be expected to have a test each week and be able to show proof of this. The Ministry of Health and partner agencies are finalising how proof of testing will be provided to essential and other workers, which is likely to be an email or text message confirming that a person has had a test in the last 7 days. There will be spot checks at the border to ensure people are getting this weekly test done. There are around 3000 essential workers crossing the Alert Level boundary every day out of an estimated 220,000 essential workers in Auckland. This additional testing will provide the assurance that travel is being done safely and prevent leakage of COVID-19 virus out of Auckland. Nasopharyngeal swab testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GP practices and urgent care clinics. Go to the Healthpoint website for testing locations in your area. Saliva based testing will become available as an option over time. Find a testing location (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health will continue to adapt and target our wastewater testing to complement our other measures. That includes increasing the catchment size of the sampling; making more regular much of the sampling and concentrating on any sites where cases have been detected – as we should get negative results once all cases have been moved to quarantine facilities. These measures will start from 11.59pm Thursday 9 September, leaving time for people to get or arrange testing over the next two days.
We know that family violence and sexual violence can escalate in times of crisis, including isolation. As the lockdown continues, families and relationships may face additional stresses and fatigue. It is important to remember that you do not need to stay in your home or bubble if it is an unsafe environment. Support services, such as refuges are working hard to support women and children to stay COVID safe and free from violence. They continue to encourage people to reach out, they are ready and available to help. Many social services are providing supportive early interventions to help families and de-escalate the potential of violence. Anyone who feels unsafe is encouraged to reach out to their support network or contact one of the support services listed on the Government’s COVID-19 website below. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For those who are feeling stressed, angry or worried about their behaviour, there is help available for them too. Acknowledging these feelings takes courage, especially during these difficult times. Reach out for support and help, and remember that you too can leave a situation if you need, in order to keep your loved ones safe. We all need to be checking on our whānau, friends and neighbours to make sure they are safe in their bubble. If you are concerned about someone, reach out to support services. Family violence and sexual violence crisis services can operate under Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3. The Government recognises this is critical so our communities know there are specialist services available and ready to help. People in danger or an emergency should contact Police on 111 , follow the operator’s instructions if you cannot speak. If you cannot call, leave your bubble and ask a neighbour or passer-by to call for you. You can also look for the shielded site button at the bottom on websites like The Warehouse, TradeMe, Countdown and others including the Joint Venture website violencefree.govt.nz (external link) – these shielded sites let you safely contact Women’s Refuge. Support for family and sexual violence prevention
New Zealand’s regulatory authority Medsafe has granted provisional approval of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine for individuals 18 years of age and older. New Zealand secured 7.6 million doses (enough for 3.8 million people) of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine through an advance purchase agreement with the company last year. The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is one of four purchase agreements we have with pharmaceutical companies for COVID-19 vaccines. We took a portfolio approach to manage the risk that some vaccines might not complete trials or be approved for use in New Zealand. We are in a fortunate position to now have three vaccines receive provisional approval. Cabinet is yet to consider whether to use the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. However this is an important step towards enabling the donation of AstraZeneca from New Zealand to Pacific countries, where we have made commitments. The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine requires two doses and is stored at normal fridge temperatures (2 to 8 degrees Celsius). The first delivery could be as early as late August, and officials are working closely with AstraZeneca to confirm delivery schedules. Our immunisation plan in New Zealand remains focused on rolling out the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The workforce is ramping up in line with increased deliveries. We are on track to provide two doses of the Pfizer vaccines to everyone in New Zealand who wishes to have one, by the end of this year. No one will miss out.
New business support for tourism operators in 5 South Island regions can be accessed from this week, with specialist local agencies now appointed to deliver the scheme. Businesses can apply for help under 2 initiatives from the $200 million Tourism Communities: Support, Recovery and Re-set Plan which was announced in May. Support, recovery and re-set plan for tourism communities — Beehive website (external link) Agreements have now been put in place with the agencies who will lead the business support programme in Fiordland/Southland District, and Queenstown Lakes, Mackenzie, Westland and Kaikoura Districts. The first initiative will provide professional one-to-one support and tailored advice to help businesses adjust to the impact of COVID-19. The second initiative offers further grants to help put that advice and planning into action, to suit their own circumstances. We are in a strong position to continue backing jobs and businesses to provide certainty in challenging times. As always, the best economic response is a strong health response. With the change to Alert Levels for the South Island from tomorrow, business owners and operators are also now able to access their premises to prepare for contactless opening, including public health requirements. Prior to the community outbreak of the New South Wales Delta variant, domestic tourism was experiencing a boom as more Kiwis got out into their own backyard during the 'do something new, New Zealand' campaign promoted by Tourism NZ. Higher Alert Levels are a reminder that this sector of our economy remains vulnerable to the impacts of the global pandemic, especially remote South Island regions that relied more heavily on foreign tourists than other areas. The $20 million tourism business support scheme offers grants up to $5,000 per business for expert advice on planning in response to COVID-19. A further grant of up to $5,000 is then available to help implement the plans and advice. The specialist local agencies contracted to deliver this support will draw on their own expertise, networks and in-depth knowledge of regional economies to get the best for each business. They are: Development West Coast for businesses in Westland District Great South for businesses in Southland (Fiordland) District ChristchurchNZ for Kaikoura and Mackenzie District businesses Queenstown Lakes District Council for businesses in Wanaka, Queenstown and surrounding areas. These agencies will be the lead entities for the business package. They have moved at pace, setting up systems and bringing people on board who will manage the initiatives at a local level. Each lead entity has a team of growth advisors who know their communities, and have the advice, skills and expertise to help local businesses through the application process. The growth advisors will be the central point of contact for businesses. The Tourism Communities Plan is a 2-year programme of both short term support, and longer-term transformation of the wider tourism sector. Work continues on other parts of the 12-point plan, and further updates will be announced as decisions are made. Details of eligibility criteria, and contact details for lead entities are on the tourism recovery section of the MBIE website: Tourism Communities: Support, Recovery and Re-set Plan (external link) The longer-term approach for a phased re-opening of the international border was announced by the Prime Minister on 12 August. It followed the publication of Sir David Skegg’s COVID-19 advice to Government The framework for a phased re-opening is centred on the COVID-19 elimination strategy and a phased resumption of quarantine-free travel. It involves vaccinating as many people as possible and safely conducting a self-isolation trial for vaccinated New Zealanders. Once enough people are vaccinated, a phased return of travellers to our shores in 2022 would be based on an individual risk-based approach to border settings. In the meantime, the Government is providing support to tourism businesses where it is most needed.
Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: The returnee is isolated in their room, whilst a dedicated quarantine transfer vehicle is sent from the quarantine facility. The vehicle is crewed by a driver and an assistant in PPE. Upon arrival of the transfer vehicle at the managed isolation facility, the returnee(s) is moved to the vehicle, with luggage placed in a trailer. Upon arrival at the Quarantine facility, the returnee(s) is processed by facility and health staff in PPE. Following departure from the managed isolation facility, the positive case(s)’s room is sealed for ten days, after which time it is given a deep clean. I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made.
There are 23 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today, all in Auckland. There is 1 new case in managed isolation. There is a slight increase in today’s numbers. As we have said previously, some volatility is likely at this stage as we expect some changes in the numbers as day 5 and day 12 tests for contacts of cases are due, and we do further investigations of any new unlinked cases. This does serve as a strong reminder of the importance of following the COVID-19 Alert Level rules wherever you are, and to get tested if you have any symptoms or have been at a location of interest at the specified times. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Number of new community cases: 33 Number of new cases identified at the border: 3 Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Watch the 4pm media conference on 13 September 2021 (external link)
There are 21 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community to confirm today. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 72. All cases have or are being transferred safely to a managed isolation facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. Of the 21 new cases, 20 are in Auckland and one is in Wellington – this case was previously reported publicly yesterday but has officially been added to the total case numbers today. Wellington’s number of community cases remains at six. Of the 72 cases, 61 cases are now confirmed as part of the Auckland cluster, with the remaining 11 under investigation to confirm linkage to the outbreak. Initial assessment shows in most cases there is a link. ESR continues to run whole genome sequencing on samples taken from all new cases to support ongoing investigations into the outbreak. ESR has completed sequencing for 17 of these cases, including the three Wellington cases reported yesterday, and found all have genome links to the Auckland cluster. There are three new cases in recent returnees in a managed isolation facility. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 35 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community to confirm today. Of these 33 are in Auckland and 2 are in Wellington. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 107. All cases have or are being transferred safely to a managed isolation facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. As previously indicated, it’s not unexpected to see a rise in daily case numbers at this stage. At its peak last year, New Zealand had a daily total of 89 new cases. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 99 and Wellington’s number of community cases has increased to 8. Of the 107 cases in the cluster, 72 are already epidemiologically linked to other community cases identified in the outbreak. Investigations are continuing to determine whether and how the remaining 35 cases are linked to the outbreak, however most have a plausible link on initial assessment. For example, people were at a location of interest. We will continue to release this information and new locations of interest as it becomes available. ESR also continues to run whole genome sequencing on cases. Yesterday 29 samples were sequenced and all were confirmed as being linked to the Auckland outbreak. There are three new cases in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 62 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community to confirm today. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 210. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 198 and 12 in Wellington. All of the cases have or are being transferred safely to a managed isolation facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. There is one new case in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 68 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community to confirm today. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 277. One case reported yesterday has been reclassified as not a case after being confirmed as a false positive. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 263 and in Wellington it is 14. The two new Wellington cases are household contacts of a current case and were in isolation during their infectious period. All of the cases have or are being transferred safely to a quarantine facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. As previously indicated, it’s not unexpected to see a rise in daily case numbers at this stage. At its peak last year, New Zealand had a daily total of 89 new cases. There are 154 cases to date which are epi-linked, and a further 123 for which links are yet to be established. Fifteen of the current community cases are in a stable condition in hospital; there are no cases in ICU. Of these, three are in North Shore Hospital, seven are in Middlemore Hospital, and five are in Auckland City Hospital. There is one new case in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 70 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today; all are in Auckland. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 347. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 333 and in Wellington it is 14. All of the cases have or are being transferred safely to a quarantine facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. There are 278 cases that have been clearly epidemiologically-linked to another case or sub-cluster, and a further 69 for which links are yet to be fully established. Nineteen of the current community cases are in a stable condition in hospital; 1 of these cases is in a stable condition in ICU. Of those in hospital, 2 are in North Shore Hospital, 8 are in Middlemore Hospital, and 9 are in Auckland City Hospital. There are no new cases identified at the border in recent returnees to report today. The total number of active cases being managed in New Zealand is currently 384. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch the media conference at 3pm
There are 82 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today; all are in Auckland. This brings the total number of cases in the community outbreak to 429. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 415 and in Wellington it is 14. All of the cases have or are being transferred safely to a quarantine facility, under strict infection prevention and control procedures, including the use of full PPE. There are 376 cases that have been clearly epidemiologically-linked to another case or sub-cluster, and a further 53 for which links are yet to be fully established. There are currently seven epidemiologically-linked subclusters identified within this outbreak. The two largest clusters are the Birkdale Social Network cluster associated with Case A (64 confirmed cases), and the Mangere church cluster (197 confirmed cases). Of these 82 new cases, 62 are Pacific peoples, five are Asian, four are European, two are Māori , one is Middle Eastern/Latin American/African, and the ethnicity of eight is unknown. Of the current community cases, 25 cases are in hospital – 23 are in a stable condition on a ward and two cases are in a stable condition in ICU. One case is in North Shore Hospital, 11 are in Middlemore Hospital, 12 are in Auckland City Hospital, and one is in Wellington Regional Hospital. There are appropriate isolation and infection prevention and control plans in place at all hospitals where these patients are being managed. The total number of active cases being managed in New Zealand is currently 429. There is one new case in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 53 new cases of COVID-19 in the New Zealand community today. All 53 cases are in Auckland. This brings the total number of active cases in the community outbreak to 562. The total number of community cases in Auckland is now 547 and in Wellington it is 15. There are 522 cases that have been clearly epidemiologically-linked to another case or sub-cluster, and a further 42 for which links are yet to be fully established. There are currently seven epidemiologically-linked subclusters identified within this outbreak. The two largest clusters are the Birkdale Social Network cluster  (79 confirmed cases), and the Mangere church cluster (280 confirmed cases). Of the current community cases, 37 cases are in hospital – 32 are in a stable condition on a ward and five cases are in a stable condition in ICU. Two cases are in North Shore Hospital, 20 are in Middlemore Hospital, 14 are in Auckland City Hospital, and one is in Wellington Regional Hospital. There are appropriate isolation and infection prevention and control plans in place at all hospitals where these patients are being managed. In addition to two recovered community cases in Auckland, one other case in a MIQ facility has now also recovered. Therefore, the total number of active cases being managed in New Zealand is currently 603. There is one new case and one historical case of COVID-19 in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 20 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today, all in Auckland. Sadly, today we are reporting the death last night in North Shore hospital of a woman in her 90s who was a confirmed case of COVID-19. The woman had a number of underlying health conditions. Our thoughts are with her whānau at this time. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 20 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today, all in Auckland. There are 3 new cases in managed isolation. Update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: getting a voucher to secure your place charges and exemptions facility locations what managed isolation is like Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link)
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: $3,100 for the first person in the room $950 for each additional adult sharing the room $475 for each additional child (aged 3 to 17 years) sharing that room. There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Any New Zealander who is currently overseas and enters New Zealand after the regulations come into force for less than 90 days will be liable for charges, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Any New Zealander who leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force (for example for a holiday or business) will be liable for charges when they return, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Everyone entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker will have to pay. In many cases, their employers will pay their managed isolation and quarantine costs. Other temporary visa holders are liable for the charges, unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand at the time the border closed and departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Partners, dependent children and legal guardians who are isolating or travelling with someone who is exempt from paying charges, unless they are entering under a critical worker border exception. Someone in New Zealand who goes into managed isolation to care for a person who is exempt from charges. Anyone travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the person convicted of the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees, including claimants, protected persons and applicants under the special immigration category for victims of domestic violence, when they enter New Zealand for the first time. Anyone entering New Zealand after a medical air transfer or rescue at sea. Patients travelling as part of the Ministry of Health High Cost Treatment Pool or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade New Zealand Medical Treatment Scheme. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau who are travelling to New Zealand for medical treatment. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau, travelling from a third country through New Zealand (staying less than 90 days) in order to return to the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau (staying at least 90 days). People being deported to New Zealand, defined as “returning offenders” (in the Returning Offenders (Management and Information) Act 2015) and any New Zealand citizen deported from Australia. Diplomats and consular staff, including their families, and official government representatives. Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: a New Zealander entering managed isolation because they left New Zealand to accompany a vulnerable or disabled person back to New Zealand someone needing to travel to or from New Zealand to receive medical treatment other compassionate grounds, including when a person has travelled to visit a seriously ill or dying close relative or attend a funeral or tangihanga, whether in New Zealand or overseas. People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice.
The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks
Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link)
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 11-20 of 535 updates 08 Sep 2021 A second red flight for people eligible for MIQ emergency allocations is scheduled to fly from Sydney to Auckland next Wednesday 15 September. 08 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 07 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 06 Sep 2021 Increased surveillance testing in healthcare, border, quarantine and essential workers is a key focus to help stamp out Auckland’s delta COVID-19 outbreak. 06 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 06 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 04 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 03 Sep 2021 Eligibility for a business to get the Resurgence Support Payment has reduced from 6 months in operation to 1 month.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 21-30 of 535 updates 03 Sep 2021 New Zealanders are reminded that there is support available for anyone feeling unsafe during this lockdown. 02 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 02 Sep 2021 The Government is investing $26 million to support the COVID-19 response in Pacific communities. 02 Sep 2021 Whānau Ora commissioning agencies will receive $8.816 million. A further $14.216 million will be available depending on the impact of Alert Level changes. 02 Sep 2021 Education Minister Chris Hipkins has today laid out the criteria under which changes could be made to school qualifications. 01 Sep 2021 Applications for the initial Wage Subsidy scheme in this outbreak close on Thursday, and applications for the next fortnightly payment begin on Friday morning. 01 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 31 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 31 Aug 2021 Tourism operators can now apply for help under 2 initiatives from the Tourism Communities: Support, Recovery and Re-set Plan. 30 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 31-40 of 535 updates 30 Aug 2021 An announcement was made on Wednesday 25 August that travel from Australia would be possible in September through a few red flights from Australia. 30 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 28 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 3pm. 27 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2021 It will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 26 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 25 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 41-50 of 535 updates 25 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 25 Aug 2021 Teachers and support staff across all early learning services, kōhanga reo, kura, and state and state-integrated schools can access free COVID-19 EAP support. 24 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 24 Aug 2021 Businesses, organisations and self-employed people can now apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment. 23 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 23 Aug 2021 Alert Level 4 will remain in place across the whole of New Zealand until 11:59pm on Friday, and until 11:59pm on Tuesday August 31 for Auckland. 23 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 22 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2021 Mandatory record keeping is being introduced for busy places and large gatherings to ensure the Government can contact trace quickly.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 491-500 of 535 updates 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 51-60 of 535 updates 22 Aug 2021 The COVID-19 vaccination programme has reached its most significant milestone to date, with more than 1 million people now fully vaccinated. 22 Aug 2021 The Government is restarting childcare for workers in Alert Level 4 businesses and services. 21 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 21 Aug 2021 Whānau and communities affected by current COVID-19 alert levels are being encouraged to access support available. 20 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 3pm. 20 Aug 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Aug 2021 The movements of a Devonport man, who has tested positive for COVID-19, are being investigated, including locations of interest in Auckland and the Coromandel. 19 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 18 Aug 2021 There are three new cases of COVID-19 in the community to confirm this afternoon. 18 Aug 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 501-510 of 535 updates 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 511-520 of 535 updates 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 521-530 of 535 updates 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 531-535 of 535 updates 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home Alert Levels and updates Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 103 KB] – updated 7 September 2021 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 186 KB] – updated 8 September 2021 Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 103 KB] – updated 7 September 2021 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 186 KB] – updated 8 September 2021 Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we have got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you are sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we have learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we have done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it is useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we have got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. --- Section Separator --- How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you are sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we have learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we have done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it is useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department for the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
When a significant event happens in a region, we will publish information on this page. --- Section Separator --- Advice on travelling and Alert Level requirements if you are in Northland, or you want to travel to Northland. --- Section Separator --- Advice on travelling and Alert Level requirements if you are in Northland, or you want to travel to Northland.
Home Alert Levels and updates Regional advice Northland --- Section Separator --- You can only travel into, out of, or through Auckland for permitted travel. This includes flights that depart from or land in Auckland Airport. Permitted travel across an Alert Level boundary does not include going for a holiday. However, if you are in Northland, you can go for a holiday in another Alert Level 2 area, as long as you can get there without going into, out of, or through Auckland. If you are in an Alert Level 2 area, you can travel to Northland for a holiday as long as you can get there without going into, out of, or through Auckland. If you are in Northland, you need to follow the guidance for Alert Level 2. What to do at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on travelling within the Northland region. Make sure you travel in a safe way: Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you are unwell, stay at home — unless you are getting a COVID-19 test. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. You can travel into, out of, or through Auckland if you are: accessing a COVID-19 vaccine, if the vaccine facility is the nearest one to your home accessing a health service with an appointment accessing judicial institutions if required or permitted, for example a court, tribunal or New Zealand Parole Board hearing accompanying others if their travel is permitted in this list caring for pets or other animals (but only if a breach of the Animal Welfare Act 1999 could result if the care were not provided) collecting someone from MIQ, or from an international airport if they do not need to enter MIQ collecting someone to accompany them to their home if they are leaving or relocating their home on a court order, or after their period of detention or determination ends going home after your time in MIQ ends, or you are going home after arriving at an international airport and you do not need to enter MIQ going to your home in Auckland (only one way — you will not be able to return to Northland while Auckland remains at Alert Level 4) in an emergency — to preserve your or another person’s life or safety leaving New Zealand, to go to an airport or port from which you are leaving New Zealand leaving or relocating your home after a period of detention or determination leaving or relocating your home from a hospital, residential health service or residential care leaving or relocating your home on a court order, etc maintaining a shared bubble arrangement in the same or adjacent district (adjacent means next to) maintaining a shared caregiver arrangement in the same or adjacent district (adjacent means next to) providing care or support to someone in a critical or terminal condition (if no one else in the same area can provided the care or support needed) providing urgent care for a child (if no one else in the same area can provided the care needed) working for an Alert Level 4 business or service you are going to the airport to travel elsewhere in New Zealand — your reason for travel must be permitted in this list. Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out of, or through Auckland. This list is a summary of permitted travel across the Alert Level boundary. You also must have evidence that you are permitted to travel. Read our full guidance on permitted travel, and evidence you must have: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary If you are travelling straight across Auckland, there are some extra reasons you can travel, in addition to what is listed above. You can travel across the boundary in 1 trip (as long as your place of departure and destination are not in Auckland, and it is necessary to travel) if you are: going to or returning from work going to your main home relocating your main home or your business premises on a permanent or long-term basis attending an education entity going to a funeral or tangihanga, or a wedding or civil union collecting or accompanying a tūpāpaku or deceased person. Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out of, or through Auckland. If you are travelling straight across Auckland, you must travel without stopping as much as possible. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Public toilets open at Alert Level 4 in Auckland (external link) This list is a summary of permitted travel across the Alert Level boundary. You should have evidence of the purpose of your travel and destination. Read our full guidance on permitted travel, and evidence you should have: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary You can travel into Auckland to fly out of Auckland Airport only if your travel is permitted. You can fly from Kerikeri into Auckland Airport to transit on your way elsewhere in New Zealand, but only if your travel is permitted. You can then fly out of Auckland, or you can use other means of transport, for example public transport or private car. Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out, or through Auckland. The permitted reasons to travel are listed in the Travelling across the Alert Level boundary into Auckland section of this page: Travelling into, out of, or through Auckland At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on travelling anywhere that is at Alert Level 2. However, people in Northland may find it difficult to travel to other Alert Level 2 areas, as they can only travel through Auckland if their travel is permitted. If you are in Northland, you can travel anywhere that is at Alert Level 2 for any reason as long as you do not go into, out of, or through Auckland. If you must go into, out of, or through Auckland, then your travel must be permitted. If you want to travel to Northland and you live in an Alert Level 2 area, you can travel there for any reason as long as you do not go into, out of, or through Auckland. The permitted reasons to travel are listed in the Travelling across the Alert Level boundary into Auckland section of this page: Travelling into, out of, or through Auckland --- Section Separator --- You can only travel into, out of, or through Auckland for permitted travel. This includes flights that depart from or land in Auckland Airport. Permitted travel across an Alert Level boundary does not include going for a holiday. However, if you are in Northland, you can go for a holiday in another Alert Level 2 area, as long as you can get there without going into, out of, or through Auckland. If you are in an Alert Level 2 area, you can travel to Northland for a holiday as long as you can get there without going into, out of, or through Auckland. --- Section Separator --- If you are in Northland, you need to follow the guidance for Alert Level 2. What to do at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on travelling within the Northland region. Make sure you travel in a safe way: Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you are unwell, stay at home — unless you are getting a COVID-19 test. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- You can travel into, out of, or through Auckland if you are: accessing a COVID-19 vaccine, if the vaccine facility is the nearest one to your home accessing a health service with an appointment accessing judicial institutions if required or permitted, for example a court, tribunal or New Zealand Parole Board hearing accompanying others if their travel is permitted in this list caring for pets or other animals (but only if a breach of the Animal Welfare Act 1999 could result if the care were not provided) collecting someone from MIQ, or from an international airport if they do not need to enter MIQ collecting someone to accompany them to their home if they are leaving or relocating their home on a court order, or after their period of detention or determination ends going home after your time in MIQ ends, or you are going home after arriving at an international airport and you do not need to enter MIQ going to your home in Auckland (only one way — you will not be able to return to Northland while Auckland remains at Alert Level 4) in an emergency — to preserve your or another person’s life or safety leaving New Zealand, to go to an airport or port from which you are leaving New Zealand leaving or relocating your home after a period of detention or determination leaving or relocating your home from a hospital, residential health service or residential care leaving or relocating your home on a court order, etc maintaining a shared bubble arrangement in the same or adjacent district (adjacent means next to) maintaining a shared caregiver arrangement in the same or adjacent district (adjacent means next to) providing care or support to someone in a critical or terminal condition (if no one else in the same area can provided the care or support needed) providing urgent care for a child (if no one else in the same area can provided the care needed) working for an Alert Level 4 business or service you are going to the airport to travel elsewhere in New Zealand — your reason for travel must be permitted in this list. Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out of, or through Auckland. This list is a summary of permitted travel across the Alert Level boundary. You also must have evidence that you are permitted to travel. Read our full guidance on permitted travel, and evidence you must have: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary If you are travelling straight across Auckland, there are some extra reasons you can travel, in addition to what is listed above. You can travel across the boundary in 1 trip (as long as your place of departure and destination are not in Auckland, and it is necessary to travel) if you are: going to or returning from work going to your main home relocating your main home or your business premises on a permanent or long-term basis attending an education entity going to a funeral or tangihanga, or a wedding or civil union collecting or accompanying a tūpāpaku or deceased person. Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out of, or through Auckland. If you are travelling straight across Auckland, you must travel without stopping as much as possible. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 4 guidance. Public toilets open at Alert Level 4 in Auckland (external link) This list is a summary of permitted travel across the Alert Level boundary. You should have evidence of the purpose of your travel and destination. Read our full guidance on permitted travel, and evidence you should have: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- You can travel into Auckland to fly out of Auckland Airport only if your travel is permitted. You can fly from Kerikeri into Auckland Airport to transit on your way elsewhere in New Zealand, but only if your travel is permitted. You can then fly out of Auckland, or you can use other means of transport, for example public transport or private car. Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out, or through Auckland. The permitted reasons to travel are listed in the Travelling across the Alert Level boundary into Auckland section of this page: Travelling into, out of, or through Auckland --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on travelling anywhere that is at Alert Level 2. However, people in Northland may find it difficult to travel to other Alert Level 2 areas, as they can only travel through Auckland if their travel is permitted. If you are in Northland, you can travel anywhere that is at Alert Level 2 for any reason as long as you do not go into, out of, or through Auckland. If you must go into, out of, or through Auckland, then your travel must be permitted. If you want to travel to Northland and you live in an Alert Level 2 area, you can travel there for any reason as long as you do not go into, out of, or through Auckland. The permitted reasons to travel are listed in the Travelling across the Alert Level boundary into Auckland section of this page: Travelling into, out of, or through Auckland --- Section Separator --- Northland
Home Alert Levels and updates Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups What you must do at different Alert Levels
Use this tool to select an activity and find out what you must do at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The actions apply to most people, but there may be some exceptions. S ome people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. Information about what you must do at other Alert Levels will be added soon. You can send us feedback about this tool in the survey box.
Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. You might be interested in: Get your QR code poster Working at Alert Level 2 Working at Alert Level 4 Financial support If your business is a location of interest Vaccines information for businesses Golden rules for businesses --- Section Separator --- Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely at different Alert Levels and financial support. Find out what you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and your workmates safe from COVID-19 while you're at work. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and resources to record visitors and customers. --- Section Separator --- Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely at different Alert Levels and financial support. Find out what you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and your workmates safe from COVID-19 while you're at work. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and resources to record visitors and customers. --- Section Separator --- Download and print signs and posters to help keep your workplace safe.
Home Business and money Business helpline and resources --- Section Separator --- A free COVID-19 business helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. This includes sole traders. Get support and advice on: government financial support, for example Wage Subsidy Scheme and Resurgence Support Payment what different Alert Levels mean for your business business continuity finding free or subsidised expert help, for example a business mentor or advisor. Employers can also get specific advice on people challenges, including staffing changes, employee wellness, and meeting your health and safety obligations. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can call 0800 424 946 for advice. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- A free COVID-19 business helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. This includes sole traders. Get support and advice on: government financial support, for example Wage Subsidy Scheme and Resurgence Support Payment what different Alert Levels mean for your business business continuity finding free or subsidised expert help, for example a business mentor or advisor. Employers can also get specific advice on people challenges, including staffing changes, employee wellness, and meeting your health and safety obligations. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can call 0800 424 946 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- Businesses Employees Financial support Business helpline and resources Signs and posters for your workplace
Find out if your business can operate at Alert Level 4. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. At Alert Level 2 all businesses can open with some restrictions, including physical distancing, use of face coverings and record keeping. At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at all Alert Levels. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can do your part by supporting your employees to get vaccinated when it is their turn. --- Section Separator --- Find out if your business can operate at Alert Level 4. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. At Alert Level 2 all businesses can open with some restrictions, including physical distancing, use of face coverings and record keeping. At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at all Alert Levels. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can do your part by supporting your employees to get vaccinated when it is their turn.
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: you display your QR code your workers stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work you encourage all workers to keep track of where they have been Many Alert Level 1 businesses and services will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must legally display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to provide an alternative way for customers and visitors to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we will be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Bluetooth tracing If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: are unwell, or have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19 have visited a location of interest have been asked to get a COVID-19 test If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: washing their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying them thoroughly coughing and sneezing into their elbow keeping shared surfaces clean avoiding sharing tools or personal objects. If workers do need to share items, encourage them to clean or sanitise them between uses. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers for all workers and customers, for example at entrances to your workplace. Regularly clean and disinfect shared spaces, including high touch areas such as counters, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and lift buttons. Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: limiting the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. Always discuss any changes with your workers first. If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: you display your QR code your workers stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work you encourage all workers to keep track of where they have been --- Section Separator --- Many Alert Level 1 businesses and services will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must legally display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to provide an alternative way for customers and visitors to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we will be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: are unwell, or have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19 have visited a location of interest have been asked to get a COVID-19 test If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. --- Section Separator --- Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: washing their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying them thoroughly coughing and sneezing into their elbow keeping shared surfaces clean avoiding sharing tools or personal objects. If workers do need to share items, encourage them to clean or sanitise them between uses. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers for all workers and customers, for example at entrances to your workplace. Regularly clean and disinfect shared spaces, including high touch areas such as counters, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and lift buttons. Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: limiting the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. Always discuss any changes with your workers first. --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 4 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all businesses can operate and have customers on their premises if they can do so safely. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. To help everyone physically distance safely, you can: limit the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts offer flexible working options, for example working from home have virtual meetings instead of meeting in person If you own or run a business where staff cannot work home, you may want to stagger start times to limit cross over between staff. If your business has customers on site, you need to meet physical distancing requirements. This may mean you need to limit the number of people that can enter your premises at any given time so people can safely physically distance. You can also limit customer contact by offering contactless payment options and providing contactless deliveries. In places like retail stores, shopping malls, libraries, gyms, museums, swimming pools, and parts of offices where customers may be present, customers and clients on the premises need to stay 2 metres apart. In other places where there is a cap on the number of people who can be present — for example cafes, restaurants and bars, customers and clients on the premises only need to keep 1 metre apart. There are specific rules for businesses in hospitality, retail and in-home services and businesses organising events or gatherings. Eating out at Alert Level 2 Retail and in-home services at Alert Level 2 Events and gatherings at Alert Level 2 Advice for businesses that normally have customers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is not open to the public — for example, an office or a factory floor, workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. There is no limit on the number of people that can be on the workplace premises, as long as everyone can safely physically distance. Your employees do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you have visitors to your workplace, you need to make sure they keep a 2 metre distance from others — for example, reception staff. Advice for businesses that only have workers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: in a public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle in a customer-facing role in a hospitality business, for example cafes or restaurants for a close contact service — for example, hairdressers or beauty therapists in a customer facing role at a retail store — including those that were operating at Alert Levels 3 and 4 at an indoor public venue — for example, a library or museum — employees working at a swimming pool do not need to wear a face covering as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Customers also need to wear a face covering when visiting certain businesses. If customers refuse to wear a face covering, you do not have to make them wear one, especially if there is a risk to your worker's safety. Keeping your workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | business.govt.nz (external link) From 11:59pm Tuesday, 14 September 2021, many businesses and services that can open at Alert Level 2 will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer customers and visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: providing ways for customers to record their visit keeping customers 2 metres apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers making sure workers wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, your employees can go into someone's home to work — for example, tradespeople, home cleaners, nannies and in-home care providers. They must stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Advice for businesses that n ormally enter customers’ homes, vehicles or workplaces | business.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 2 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. We encourage you to consider flexible working options — for example, changing start and finish times so your employees do not have to commute at peak times. Public transport at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel for work to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2. Employees should keep a record of who they have been in contact with, and what transport services they used. If workers are using a company vehicle or travelling together in a work vehicle, try to limit the number of people travelling so people can safely distance. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend employees wear a face covering. Make sure you clean and sanitise vehicles after use. Business or work travel into Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Only Alert Level 4 businesses and services can travel in and out of Auckland. Your employees will need to carry evidence of their reason to travel. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all businesses can operate and have customers on their premises if they can do so safely. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. To help everyone physically distance safely, you can: limit the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts offer flexible working options, for example working from home have virtual meetings instead of meeting in person If you own or run a business where staff cannot work home, you may want to stagger start times to limit cross over between staff. If your business has customers on site, you need to meet physical distancing requirements. This may mean you need to limit the number of people that can enter your premises at any given time so people can safely physically distance. You can also limit customer contact by offering contactless payment options and providing contactless deliveries. In places like retail stores, shopping malls, libraries, gyms, museums, swimming pools, and parts of offices where customers may be present, customers and clients on the premises need to stay 2 metres apart. In other places where there is a cap on the number of people who can be present — for example cafes, restaurants and bars, customers and clients on the premises only need to keep 1 metre apart. There are specific rules for businesses in hospitality, retail and in-home services and businesses organising events or gatherings. Eating out at Alert Level 2 Retail and in-home services at Alert Level 2 Events and gatherings at Alert Level 2 Advice for businesses that normally have customers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is not open to the public — for example, an office or a factory floor, workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. There is no limit on the number of people that can be on the workplace premises, as long as everyone can safely physically distance. Your employees do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you have visitors to your workplace, you need to make sure they keep a 2 metre distance from others — for example, reception staff. Advice for businesses that only have workers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: in a public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle in a customer-facing role in a hospitality business, for example cafes or restaurants for a close contact service — for example, hairdressers or beauty therapists in a customer facing role at a retail store — including those that were operating at Alert Levels 3 and 4 at an indoor public venue — for example, a library or museum — employees working at a swimming pool do not need to wear a face covering as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Customers also need to wear a face covering when visiting certain businesses. If customers refuse to wear a face covering, you do not have to make them wear one, especially if there is a risk to your worker's safety. Keeping your workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm Tuesday, 14 September 2021, many businesses and services that can open at Alert Level 2 will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer customers and visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: providing ways for customers to record their visit keeping customers 2 metres apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers making sure workers wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your employees can go into someone's home to work — for example, tradespeople, home cleaners, nannies and in-home care providers. They must stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Advice for businesses that n ormally enter customers’ homes, vehicles or workplaces | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 2 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. We encourage you to consider flexible working options — for example, changing start and finish times so your employees do not have to commute at peak times. Public transport at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel for work to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2. Employees should keep a record of who they have been in contact with, and what transport services they used. If workers are using a company vehicle or travelling together in a work vehicle, try to limit the number of people travelling so people can safely distance. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend employees wear a face covering. Make sure you clean and sanitise vehicles after use. Business or work travel into Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Only Alert Level 4 businesses and services can travel in and out of Auckland. Your employees will need to carry evidence of their reason to travel. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 4 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, everyone should work from home if they can. If your business involves close physical contact, it cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes: meeting physical distancing requirements having extra hygiene measures regularly cleaning and disinfecting shared surfaces having contactless options for ordering, pick-up, delivery and payment making sure staff, customers and visitors wear a face covering if they are required to. If your business does not have measures in place to operate safely, then you should close. Guidance for specific businesses at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Your business legally must be contactless. Yo ur customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a: supermarket dairy food bank liquor store in a Licensing Trust area butcher  — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location fishmonger — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location greengrocer — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location petrol station self-service laundry pharmacy health service accomodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary and animal care service shopping malls — only to access stores which are open to customers, or to pick up a contactless order public transport or passenger service New Zealand Post — for PO Box and collection services only bank or financial institution —  in person customer transactions can only happen if online or phone banking options are not possible hardware or DIY store— these can open to trade customers only venue that holds organised funerals, tangihanga, weddings and civil unions Customers cannot eat or drink on your premises. At Alert Level 3, work such as building and construction can resume. If you are a retail business operating in the Alert Level 3 area, you can sell and deliver both essential and non-essential goods to customers in the Alert Level 4 area. If you own or run a business where staff cannot work from home, make sure: employees keep 1 metre apart. customers stay 2 metres apart, including when waiting in line to pick up a contactless order. If your business is allowed customers on site and physical distancing is difficult, you may need to implement a "one-in, one out" policy. you offer flexible working options — for example staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to reduce the number of people your employees have contact with at work. your employees stay home if they are sick, have cold or flu symptoms, or if they have been asked to get a COVID-19 test. You can apply for financial support so you can keep paying your employees who need to isolate. Financial support if an employee needs to self-isolate . you provide hygiene and cleaning products so workers can clean and disinfect shared surfaces, and wash and dry their hands. you display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for people who cannot access a smartphone. Your employees must wear a face covering at work if they: work at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post work in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal or social service provider are a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle they are a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 3, it is important we have strong contact tracing abilities. Many Alert Level 3 businesses are now legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster Farmers markets Nightclubs Entertainment and tourist facilities where people gather — for example museums, cinemas, libraries, arcades. Hairdressers and beauty salons Gyms and exercise facilities Driving instructors Outdoor adventure activity operators At Alert Level 3, your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson, for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. They should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Home cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Employers of in-home carers must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep their staff safe in the workplace. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying a carer if the person they are visiting is sick. Anyone who enters a home to provide care should: stay home if they are sick and get tested if they have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of their visit for contact tracing purposes get vaccinated if they have not already. At Alert Level 3, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace premises in an Alert Level 3 area. Think about what tasks can be done from home — for example, having a virtual meeting rather than meeting in-person, or doing the administration work from home. If your workers do need to go onto the workplace premises, only allow those who need to go into work to do so. Everyone else should work from home. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, everyone should work from home if they can. If your business involves close physical contact, it cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes: meeting physical distancing requirements having extra hygiene measures regularly cleaning and disinfecting shared surfaces having contactless options for ordering, pick-up, delivery and payment making sure staff, customers and visitors wear a face covering if they are required to. If your business does not have measures in place to operate safely, then you should close. Guidance for specific businesses at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your business legally must be contactless. Yo ur customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a: supermarket dairy food bank liquor store in a Licensing Trust area butcher  — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location fishmonger — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location greengrocer — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location petrol station self-service laundry pharmacy health service accomodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary and animal care service shopping malls — only to access stores which are open to customers, or to pick up a contactless order public transport or passenger service New Zealand Post — for PO Box and collection services only bank or financial institution —  in person customer transactions can only happen if online or phone banking options are not possible hardware or DIY store— these can open to trade customers only venue that holds organised funerals, tangihanga, weddings and civil unions Customers cannot eat or drink on your premises. At Alert Level 3, work such as building and construction can resume. If you are a retail business operating in the Alert Level 3 area, you can sell and deliver both essential and non-essential goods to customers in the Alert Level 4 area. If you own or run a business where staff cannot work from home, make sure: employees keep 1 metre apart. customers stay 2 metres apart, including when waiting in line to pick up a contactless order. If your business is allowed customers on site and physical distancing is difficult, you may need to implement a "one-in, one out" policy. you offer flexible working options — for example staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to reduce the number of people your employees have contact with at work. your employees stay home if they are sick, have cold or flu symptoms, or if they have been asked to get a COVID-19 test. You can apply for financial support so you can keep paying your employees who need to isolate. Financial support if an employee needs to self-isolate . you provide hygiene and cleaning products so workers can clean and disinfect shared surfaces, and wash and dry their hands. you display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for people who cannot access a smartphone. Your employees must wear a face covering at work if they: work at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post work in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal or social service provider are a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle they are a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, it is important we have strong contact tracing abilities. Many Alert Level 3 businesses are now legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Farmers markets Nightclubs Entertainment and tourist facilities where people gather — for example museums, cinemas, libraries, arcades. Hairdressers and beauty salons Gyms and exercise facilities Driving instructors Outdoor adventure activity operators --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson, for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. They should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Home cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Employers of in-home carers must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep their staff safe in the workplace. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying a carer if the person they are visiting is sick. Anyone who enters a home to provide care should: stay home if they are sick and get tested if they have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of their visit for contact tracing purposes get vaccinated if they have not already. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace premises in an Alert Level 3 area. Think about what tasks can be done from home — for example, having a virtual meeting rather than meeting in-person, or doing the administration work from home. If your workers do need to go onto the workplace premises, only allow those who need to go into work to do so. Everyone else should work from home. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 4 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. You cannot apply to provide an Alert Level 4 service — instead it is up to the business to check whether they meet the definition of an Alert Level 4 business or service. You do not need an exemption or permission to operate or for your employees to go to work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, only certain businesses can open to the public and have customers on their premises. You can open to customers if you are a: supermarket, dairy or food bank pharmacy liquor store (only Licensing Trust stores in the 4 Licensing Trust Areas with a monopoly can sell alcohol) petrol station self-service laundry bank or a financial institution hardware store — for trade customers only health service accommodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support emergency service Parliamentary services passenger services, including public transport by road, rail, air or sea school hostel. All other businesses must not have customers on their premises. Operating at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) If you are an Alert Level 4 business or service and you can have customers on your premises, you can open for click and collect services. If you are a hardware store, click and collect is only available for trade customers. Make sure your staff limit their interactions with customers as much possible by having contactless methods for pick up and payment. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can: call 0800 424 946, or email AL4BusinessServices@mbie.govt.nz for advice. The following businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4. The businesses are organised by sector. Not all of these businesses can have customers on the premises, and there are restrictions on how they can operate. You do not need to apply to operate with MBIE or MPI during Alert Level 4. It is up to you to check if you business meets the criteria of an Alert Level 4 business or service. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has published a list of essential non-food consumer products that can be provided at Alert Level 4. Businesses and shoppers are expected to act responsibly. Any provision of essential non-food consumer products should be by online order with contactless delivery only. Essential non-food consumer products | business.govt.nz (external link) If your employees need to work on site, you should: limit the number of people on site so everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart offer flexible working arrangements, for example, staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to help with physical distancing clean and disinfect your workplace regularly provide employees with handwashing facilities have personal protective equipment (PPE) available for employees to use encourage workers to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for workers and customers to use. If your employees interact with customers or members of the public, they legally must wear a face covering while at work. Face coverings at Alert Level 4 If your workplace is allowed customers on premises make sure you encourage everyone to: scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App or fill out a contact tracing register sanitise their hands on entry physically distance by installing barriers, closing every alternate checkout or having a "one-in, one out" policy use contactless payment options If your business cannot meet all Alert Level 4 rules to operate safely, your workers should not go into work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, it is important we have strong contact tracing ability. Businesses that are open at Alert Level 4 legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors a way to manually sign in. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Record keeping and contact tracing If your employees need to go into the premises or work on site, they can travel to work by any method, like their car or public transport. Employees may be asked to show who they work for so they can prove they have a reason to travel. We recommend you provide your employees with a letter to confirm: their name that they are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service the address of your workplace. Public transport services may have limited capacity during Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand on public transport so everyone can safely distance. If your employees need to use public transport to get to work, we encourage you to offer flexible working options. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Your employees can travel to your workplace to collect any materials or equipment they need to help them work from home. When going into your workplace, your employees should: plan what they need so they limit their time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app Your employees should not go into the workplace if they are unwell, have been asked to isolate or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. For information about what to do if your warrant of fitness (WoF), certificate of fitness (CoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) is expiring at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Alert Level 4 workers who have children aged up to 13 years old can access free care, so they are able to continue to provide the services we need at Alert Level 4. The scheme is for workers in Alert Level 4 businesses and services, and other exempted services such as fire and emergency and border workers. You can get free childcare if you do not have childcare in place — you are expected to use your own private arrangements where possible. Access a childcare provider for workers of Alert Level 4 businesses or services (external link) If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, everyone in the household must follow all public health advice. This may mean self-isolating in their bubble at home. Your employee should not: come into work leave home for exercise go grocery shopping. This is essential to prevent spreading the virus further. If your employee is required to self-isolate, you can support them by: delivering groceries or medications to their home in a contactless way checking in on their mental health and wellbeing Encourage your employees to keep checking the locations of interest as they are updated regularly. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, they should let you know straight away so they can go home and isolate. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) If an employee finds out they have tested positive for COVID-19 while they are at work, they must tell you immediately. You may be directed by a medical officer of health to comply with certain public health measures to limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect your employees, their whānau and your community. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what you need to do if an employee, customer or visitor is a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) If an employee develops symptoms of COVID-19 at work, send them home and ask them to call Healthline or their GP for advice on getting a test. If your business is identified as a location of interest, you will be contacted by a public health official. The public health official will talk you through what this means for you. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what to tell your staff and customers if you're identified as a location of interest and how to identify any contacts who may have been exposed to COVID-19. If your business is a location of interest | Ministry of Health (external link) If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. You cannot apply to provide an Alert Level 4 service — instead it is up to the business to check whether they meet the definition of an Alert Level 4 business or service. You do not need an exemption or permission to operate or for your employees to go to work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, only certain businesses can open to the public and have customers on their premises. You can open to customers if you are a: supermarket, dairy or food bank pharmacy liquor store (only Licensing Trust stores in the 4 Licensing Trust Areas with a monopoly can sell alcohol) petrol station self-service laundry bank or a financial institution hardware store — for trade customers only health service accommodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support emergency service Parliamentary services passenger services, including public transport by road, rail, air or sea school hostel. All other businesses must not have customers on their premises. Operating at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) If you are an Alert Level 4 business or service and you can have customers on your premises, you can open for click and collect services. If you are a hardware store, click and collect is only available for trade customers. Make sure your staff limit their interactions with customers as much possible by having contactless methods for pick up and payment. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can: call 0800 424 946, or email AL4BusinessServices@mbie.govt.nz for advice. --- Section Separator --- The following businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4. The businesses are organised by sector. Not all of these businesses can have customers on the premises, and there are restrictions on how they can operate. You do not need to apply to operate with MBIE or MPI during Alert Level 4. It is up to you to check if you business meets the criteria of an Alert Level 4 business or service. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has published a list of essential non-food consumer products that can be provided at Alert Level 4. Businesses and shoppers are expected to act responsibly. Any provision of essential non-food consumer products should be by online order with contactless delivery only. Essential non-food consumer products | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employees need to work on site, you should: limit the number of people on site so everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart offer flexible working arrangements, for example, staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to help with physical distancing clean and disinfect your workplace regularly provide employees with handwashing facilities have personal protective equipment (PPE) available for employees to use encourage workers to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for workers and customers to use. If your employees interact with customers or members of the public, they legally must wear a face covering while at work. Face coverings at Alert Level 4 If your workplace is allowed customers on premises make sure you encourage everyone to: scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App or fill out a contact tracing register sanitise their hands on entry physically distance by installing barriers, closing every alternate checkout or having a "one-in, one out" policy use contactless payment options If your business cannot meet all Alert Level 4 rules to operate safely, your workers should not go into work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, it is important we have strong contact tracing ability. Businesses that are open at Alert Level 4 legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors a way to manually sign in. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Record keeping and contact tracing --- Section Separator --- If your employees need to go into the premises or work on site, they can travel to work by any method, like their car or public transport. Employees may be asked to show who they work for so they can prove they have a reason to travel. We recommend you provide your employees with a letter to confirm: their name that they are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service the address of your workplace. Public transport services may have limited capacity during Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand on public transport so everyone can safely distance. If your employees need to use public transport to get to work, we encourage you to offer flexible working options. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Your employees can travel to your workplace to collect any materials or equipment they need to help them work from home. When going into your workplace, your employees should: plan what they need so they limit their time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app Your employees should not go into the workplace if they are unwell, have been asked to isolate or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. For information about what to do if your warrant of fitness (WoF), certificate of fitness (CoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) is expiring at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Alert Level 4 workers who have children aged up to 13 years old can access free care, so they are able to continue to provide the services we need at Alert Level 4. The scheme is for workers in Alert Level 4 businesses and services, and other exempted services such as fire and emergency and border workers. You can get free childcare if you do not have childcare in place — you are expected to use your own private arrangements where possible. Access a childcare provider for workers of Alert Level 4 businesses or services (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, everyone in the household must follow all public health advice. This may mean self-isolating in their bubble at home. Your employee should not: come into work leave home for exercise go grocery shopping. This is essential to prevent spreading the virus further. If your employee is required to self-isolate, you can support them by: delivering groceries or medications to their home in a contactless way checking in on their mental health and wellbeing Encourage your employees to keep checking the locations of interest as they are updated regularly. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, they should let you know straight away so they can go home and isolate. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employee finds out they have tested positive for COVID-19 while they are at work, they must tell you immediately. You may be directed by a medical officer of health to comply with certain public health measures to limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect your employees, their whānau and your community. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what you need to do if an employee, customer or visitor is a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) If an employee develops symptoms of COVID-19 at work, send them home and ask them to call Healthline or their GP for advice on getting a test. If your business is identified as a location of interest, you will be contacted by a public health official. The public health official will talk you through what this means for you. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what to tell your staff and customers if you're identified as a location of interest and how to identify any contacts who may have been exposed to COVID-19. If your business is a location of interest | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 4 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses
Home Business and money Businesses Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could be airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This is not mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could be airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This is not mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. --- Section Separator --- You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 4 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses
Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. --- Section Separator --- Businesses opening at Alert Level 2 have until 11:59pm Tuesday, 14 September, 2021 to get your record keeping systems set up. --- Section Separator --- Record keeping involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace or location. If there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, public health officials and contact tracers will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. When businesses and event organisers keep records of who was at their workplace or location, it makes contact tracing faster and more efficient. Good record keeping and fast contact tracing will help stop the spread of COVID-19, and protect our businesses, communities and each other. Contact records are personal information and need to be kept safe and secure to maintain and build trust in the contact tracing system. --- Section Separator --- Many businesses and locations are required to take steps to ensure a people can easily make a record when they visit. If you are the person in charge of a business, location or event, you legally must make sure you have safe and secure systems and processes in place so that everyone working on or visiting your premises can scan in or provide their details in an electronic or paper-based manual process, no matter how long they are there for. This includes workers, contractors, customers, and volunteers. If your business is opening at Alert Level 2, you have until 11.59pm Tuesday, 14 September 2021 to get your systems set up. If your business was open at Alert Level 3, you should already have systems set up. You legally must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Your system for recording customers and visitors can include: asking people to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app recording your customers' and visitors' details manually providing paper forms for customers and visitors to fill in with their details and place in a collection box using your existing record-keeping systems, such as swipe-card access or appointment bookings. You still need to continue displaying your QR code poster even if you are not required to collect customer records. Business.govt.nz has guidance on record keeping. business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for customers and visitors to record that they have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. You must have ways to record a visit if you are: a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub a health service a close-contact personal care service — for example, a hairdresser or beautician an indoor exercise facility — for example a gym or swimming pool an entertainment venue — for example a cinema, stadium, theatre or casino an indoor public facility where people gather — museums or libraries a court or tribunal a social services provider with customer service counters — such as a Ministry of Social Development office organising a wedding, funeral, tangihanga or faith-based service organising a concert having a gathering or hui at a marae. At an event, for example a wedding or tangihanga, either the venue owner or operator, or the organiser/hirer of the venue can be the person who is responsible for making sure there are ways for people to record their visit. We still encourage you to keep contact tracing records and promote the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information about the NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Contact records are personal information. They need to be collected, used, stored, disclosed, and disposed of safely and securely in accordance with the Privacy Act 2020. The most secure way for customers and visitors to record their details is by scanning the NZ COVID Tracer app. If people cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you need to make sure that any alternative method you use for contact tracing protects people’s privacy, and that you only use the information they provide for contact tracing purposes. Alternative recording systems require more care to keep them safe and secure. Do not leave paper-based records out in the open where others can see the information. This is the leading cause of COVID-19-related privacy breaches. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner's website has practical guidance that will help you protect people's privacy when using alternative contact recording methods. Use a simple privacy statement alongside your alternative record keeping system to let people know why the information is needed and how long you need it for. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several ways you can make record keeping easier for you and your workers, customers and visitors. --- Section Separator --- There is no expectation or requirement that you should force a customer or visitor to scan in or provide their details for contact tracing. You are also not required or expected to turn people away who may refuse to make a record of their visit. It is up to you to decide what is appropriate for your premises and the wellbeing of your staff and other customers. --- Section Separator --- Download and print record keeping slips, stickers and a box template. You can also print posters to remind staff, customers and visitors to scan in. Resources --- Section Separator --- If you do not follow these record keeping requirements, you will be fined an infringement fee of $300 or a court-imposed fine of up to $1,000. Failing to display a QR code will continue to be an infringement offence carrying an infringement fee of $300 or court imposed fine of up to $1,000.
Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 2. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 3. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 4. Information on what your employer can do to support you to get vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 2. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 3. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 4. Information on what your employer can do to support you to get vaccinated.
Home Business and money Employees Working safely at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your workplace can open and have customers on site, but with some restrictions. You must scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or record your details for contact tracing every time you enter your workplace. If you go into your workplace, keep 1 metre apart from other people you work with, and 2 metres apart from customers or visitors. In some places where there is a cap on the number of people permitted on the premises — for example if you work at a cafe or restaurant, you only need to keep 1 metre apart from customers. If you need to have meetings, use a large room with enough space for everyone to physically distance or use video conferencing. If you use someone else’s desk, devices or tools, clean and disinfect them before and after use. If your job involves interacting with customers, you must wear a face covering while you are at work. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If your job involves interacting with customers, try to limit contact by offering contactless payment methods, and contactless delivery. Regularly clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces like cash registers, EFTPOS machines and counter tops. Your employer may also ask you to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) if it is needed for your job. Customers are required to wear face coverings when visiting certain businesses. You should encourage customers to wear a face covering, but you do not have to enforce this, if people refuse. Talk to your employer about how they can help keep you safe. Keeping workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | advice from business.govt.nz (external link) Your employer may also ask you to work from home if you are able to, or offer flexible working arrangements to help meet physical distancing requirements. If you are worried about going into work, talk to your employer about flexible work arrangements. If there is something more your employer can do to keep you safe at work, talk to them and explain what you would like to happen. If you are a taxi, ride-share or delivery driver, you must wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering even if you have been vaccinated. If you are a delivery driver: you only need to wear a face covering when y ou are out of your vehicle. you must stay at least 2 metres away from other people when making deliveries to homes or workplaces. Advice for delivery drivers | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can go into someone's home to work — for example if you are a cleaner, tradesperson, nanny or in-home care provider. You must stay 2 metres apart from others. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to work. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 2 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. It is important that you think ahead and plan your journey – there may not be enough seats available on the trip you would normally take, meaning that you may need to wait for the next service instead. If you normally travel at peak time, you might want to consider whether you can change your journey time. Talk to your employer about flexible working options so you do not have to commute at peak times. Public transport at Alert Level 2 Business or work travel across Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. You can only travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary if your reason for travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary At Alert Level 2, you can travel freely within any Alert Level 2 areas for work. You can use both public and private transport. Remember to wear a face covering on all public transport services and to keep a record of the services you used. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your workplace can open and have customers on site, but with some restrictions. You must scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or record your details for contact tracing every time you enter your workplace. If you go into your workplace, keep 1 metre apart from other people you work with, and 2 metres apart from customers or visitors. In some places where there is a cap on the number of people permitted on the premises — for example if you work at a cafe or restaurant, you only need to keep 1 metre apart from customers. If you need to have meetings, use a large room with enough space for everyone to physically distance or use video conferencing. If you use someone else’s desk, devices or tools, clean and disinfect them before and after use. If your job involves interacting with customers, you must wear a face covering while you are at work. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If your job involves interacting with customers, try to limit contact by offering contactless payment methods, and contactless delivery. Regularly clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces like cash registers, EFTPOS machines and counter tops. Your employer may also ask you to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) if it is needed for your job. Customers are required to wear face coverings when visiting certain businesses. You should encourage customers to wear a face covering, but you do not have to enforce this, if people refuse. Talk to your employer about how they can help keep you safe. Keeping workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | advice from business.govt.nz (external link) Your employer may also ask you to work from home if you are able to, or offer flexible working arrangements to help meet physical distancing requirements. If you are worried about going into work, talk to your employer about flexible work arrangements. If there is something more your employer can do to keep you safe at work, talk to them and explain what you would like to happen. --- Section Separator --- If you are a taxi, ride-share or delivery driver, you must wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering even if you have been vaccinated. If you are a delivery driver: you only need to wear a face covering when y ou are out of your vehicle. you must stay at least 2 metres away from other people when making deliveries to homes or workplaces. Advice for delivery drivers | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go into someone's home to work — for example if you are a cleaner, tradesperson, nanny or in-home care provider. You must stay 2 metres apart from others. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you or if the clients you visit are unwell. --- Section Separator --- If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to work. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 2 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. It is important that you think ahead and plan your journey – there may not be enough seats available on the trip you would normally take, meaning that you may need to wait for the next service instead. If you normally travel at peak time, you might want to consider whether you can change your journey time. Talk to your employer about flexible working options so you do not have to commute at peak times. Public transport at Alert Level 2 Business or work travel across Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. You can only travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary if your reason for travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary At Alert Level 2, you can travel freely within any Alert Level 2 areas for work. You can use both public and private transport. Remember to wear a face covering on all public transport services and to keep a record of the services you used. --- Section Separator --- Working safely at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Vaccine information for workers
Home Business and money Employees Working safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you must work from home if you can. If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay check that you have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates. All interactions with customers legally must be contactless. This means customers cannot come onto the premises, unless you work at a: supermarket dairy foodbank butcher fishmonger greengrocer petrol station pharmacy health care provider accomodation service liquor store in a Licencing Trust area court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary or animal care service venue where a funeral, tangihanga, wedding or civil union ceremony is being held bank or financial institution public transport or passenger service hardware or DIY store — these stores can only open to trade customers. If you need to interact with customers, check that your employer has set up contactless options for payment, deliveries and collection. If your workplace is allowed customers on site, your employer should install screens or barriers to help with physical distancing. Your employer may also provide you with personal protective equipment (PPE), for example gloves to use as an extra safety measure. You also must keep 1 metre apart from people you work with. Your employer must provide you with training on the safety measures they have implemented, and consult with you before making any changes to the way you work. Your employer also needs to provide you with hand sanitiser and cleaning products so you can wash your hands and clean and disinfect equipment and surfaces you touch often. We recommend you scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app before you enter your workplace, or keeping your own record to help with contact tracing. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — you only need to wear a face covering when you are out of your vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — you do not need to wear a face covering on school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Wear a face covering if you are required to. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often. Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. At Alert Level 3, you can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. You should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are a home cleaner, you can continue to support vulnerable people. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Your employer must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep you safe at work. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying you if the person you are providing care for is sick. If you are going into someone's home to provide care, you should: stay home if you are sick and get a test if you have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of your visit for contact tracing purposes get a vaccine when you are offered one. If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it's important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you must work from home if you can. If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay check that you have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates. --- Section Separator --- All interactions with customers legally must be contactless. This means customers cannot come onto the premises, unless you work at a: supermarket dairy foodbank butcher fishmonger greengrocer petrol station pharmacy health care provider accomodation service liquor store in a Licencing Trust area court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary or animal care service venue where a funeral, tangihanga, wedding or civil union ceremony is being held bank or financial institution public transport or passenger service hardware or DIY store — these stores can only open to trade customers. If you need to interact with customers, check that your employer has set up contactless options for payment, deliveries and collection. If your workplace is allowed customers on site, your employer should install screens or barriers to help with physical distancing. Your employer may also provide you with personal protective equipment (PPE), for example gloves to use as an extra safety measure. You also must keep 1 metre apart from people you work with. Your employer must provide you with training on the safety measures they have implemented, and consult with you before making any changes to the way you work. Your employer also needs to provide you with hand sanitiser and cleaning products so you can wash your hands and clean and disinfect equipment and surfaces you touch often. We recommend you scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app before you enter your workplace, or keeping your own record to help with contact tracing. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — you only need to wear a face covering when you are out of your vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — you do not need to wear a face covering on school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Wear a face covering if you are required to. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often. Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. You should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are a home cleaner, you can continue to support vulnerable people. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Your employer must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep you safe at work. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying you if the person you are providing care for is sick. If you are going into someone's home to provide care, you should: stay home if you are sick and get a test if you have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of your visit for contact tracing purposes get a vaccine when you are offered one. --- Section Separator --- If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it's important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area --- Section Separator --- Working safely at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Vaccine information for workers
Home Business and money Employees Working safely at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you must work from home. You can go to work at your workplace if you are employed by a business that is authorised to provide goods or services at Alert Level 4. This includes: supermarket workers service station attendants dairy owners and shop assistants who work in a dairy courier and delivery drivers first responders — for example paramedics healthcare workers, including those who work in a pharmacy retirement home and aged care workers taxi and ride-share drivers freight and transport workers veterinary service providers workers who provide essential care for animals hardware store workers funeral directors tradespeople — for example plumbers, builders and electricians if they are carrying out urgent repair or maintenance mechanics carrying out urgent repairs mental health, addiction, support and social workers security service workers, including locksmiths cleaners working in an accommodation facility dairy farmers pest controllers horticulture workers any one working in an accommodation facility Not all businesses that operate at Alert Level 4 are allowed customers and clients in the workplace. Talk to your employer if you are unsure if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. Find out which businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 If your work involves i nteracting with customers or members of the public, you legally must wear a face covering while at work. Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, and: you have been at a location of interest at the time and date specified, or you live with someone who has been at a location of interest You legally must stay home and follow public health guidelines. Do not go into work. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) You should also stay home if you are unwell. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a COVID-19 test. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test Financial support if you need to isolate If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, it is very important that you keep checking the locations of interest so you can isolate immediately if you visited them at the relevant times. This is to stop the spread of the virus further. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work. You can use public or private transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Public transport services may have limited capacity at Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand so everyone can safely distance. If you need to use public transport to get to work, we recommend you talk to your employer about flexible working options. Public transport at Alert Level 4 You legally must wear a face covering on all public transport, including at departure points such as train stations or bus stops. If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay support you to have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates It's important to look after your mental health and wellbeing while you are working from home. Advice on staying mentally healthy when working from home | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to your workplace to collect equipment to help you work from home. Make sure you check with your employer about the rules for entering the workplace premises. When going into your workplace, you should: plan what you need so you limit your time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app Do not go into your workplace if you are unwell, have been asked to isolate or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you must work from home. You can go to work at your workplace if you are employed by a business that is authorised to provide goods or services at Alert Level 4. This includes: supermarket workers service station attendants dairy owners and shop assistants who work in a dairy courier and delivery drivers first responders — for example paramedics healthcare workers, including those who work in a pharmacy retirement home and aged care workers taxi and ride-share drivers freight and transport workers veterinary service providers workers who provide essential care for animals hardware store workers funeral directors tradespeople — for example plumbers, builders and electricians if they are carrying out urgent repair or maintenance mechanics carrying out urgent repairs mental health, addiction, support and social workers security service workers, including locksmiths cleaners working in an accommodation facility dairy farmers pest controllers horticulture workers any one working in an accommodation facility Not all businesses that operate at Alert Level 4 are allowed customers and clients in the workplace. Talk to your employer if you are unsure if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. Find out which businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- If your work involves i nteracting with customers or members of the public, you legally must wear a face covering while at work. Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, and: you have been at a location of interest at the time and date specified, or you live with someone who has been at a location of interest You legally must stay home and follow public health guidelines. Do not go into work. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) You should also stay home if you are unwell. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a COVID-19 test. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test Financial support if you need to isolate If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, it is very important that you keep checking the locations of interest so you can isolate immediately if you visited them at the relevant times. This is to stop the spread of the virus further. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work. You can use public or private transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Public transport services may have limited capacity at Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand so everyone can safely distance. If you need to use public transport to get to work, we recommend you talk to your employer about flexible working options. Public transport at Alert Level 4 You legally must wear a face covering on all public transport, including at departure points such as train stations or bus stops. --- Section Separator --- If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay support you to have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates It's important to look after your mental health and wellbeing while you are working from home. Advice on staying mentally healthy when working from home | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to your workplace to collect equipment to help you work from home. Make sure you check with your employer about the rules for entering the workplace premises. When going into your workplace, you should: plan what you need so you limit your time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app Do not go into your workplace if you are unwell, have been asked to isolate or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- Working safely at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Vaccine information for workers
If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Find out what financial support you can get for your business. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. --- Section Separator --- If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Find out what financial support you can get for your business. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress.
Home Business and money Financial support COVID-19 financial support tool Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee.
Home Business and money Financial support Businesses --- Section Separator --- A second round of the Resurgence Support Payment will open for applications on Friday 17 September 2021. You can apply if you have already received a payment. The payment and eligibility criteria are the same as the current scheme. Resurgence Support Payment The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. For example, while Auckland is in Alert Levels 3 or 4, businesses in Auckland and other parts of the country can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. You can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying your staff and protect jobs. Businesses must meet the eligibility criteria to apply. Businesses and self-employed people must expect a 40% drop in revenue to be eligible to receive the wage subsidy. The wage subsidy is paid in a 2 week lump sum. You can get: $600 per week for each full-time employee $359 per week for each part-time employee You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Applications for the second August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. If you did not apply for the first Wage Subsidy you can apply for second one if you meet eligibility criteria. If you applied for the first August 2021 Wage Subsidy, you can also apply for the second Wage Subsidy 2 weeks after your previous application, if you meet eligibility criteria. Do not send in early applications — they will not be accepted as each payment is for 2 weeks. Apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs for businesses who have been directly affected when there is an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses anywhere in New Zealand can apply if they meet the eligibility criteria. You can apply for both the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme if you meet all the eligible criteria. A second round of the Resurgence Support Payment will open for applications on Friday 17 September 2021. You can apply if you have already received a payment. The payment and eligibility criteria are the same as the current scheme. Apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) If you employ 50 or fewer staff, you may be able to apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme. This is a one-off 5 year loan. You can b orrow a maximum of $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee within your business . When applying for the loan, you need to be able to declare that your business is viable. Your business must have experienced a minimum 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over the period of a month, compared with the same month last year. Applications are open until 31 December 2023 through myIR. If your business does not have a myIR account, you will need to create one to apply. Loans will be interest free if they are paid back within 2 years. The interest rate is 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme (external link) (external link) (external link) If you are finding it hard to meet your tax obligations due to COVID-19, Inland Revenue may be able to help. COVID-19 information for businesses | Inland Revenue (external link) The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to get a month’s protection while they talk to their creditors. During this period, most creditors cannot take legal action to enforce their debts, for example, applying for your business to be liquidated. If your creditors agree, you can get a further 6 months’ protection. Applications are open until 31 October 2021. Find out if business debt hibernation is an option for you (external link) If an employee has been asked to self-isolate by a doctor or health official, they legally must stay home until they are told they no longer need to by public health officials. If an employee cannot work from home while self-isolating, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. If your employees have been asked to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can also use the payment to help pay employees who: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells them they no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. The Leave Support Scheme is paid as a 2 week lump sum at the rate of: $600 a week for full-time employees $359 a week for part-time employees Employers and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. This payment is available anytime, and is not restricted to a change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) If an employee has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, they must stay home until they get a negative result. If an employee cannot work from home, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment helps businesses keep paying employees who cannot work from home and: need to stay at home while waiting for a COVID-19 test result need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, or live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can get a one-off amount of $359 for each eligible worker while they are staying home waiting for test results. The amount is the same for both full-time and part-time employees. You can apply for the Short-term Absence Payment any time, not just when there is a risk of community transmission, or change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- A second round of the Resurgence Support Payment will open for applications on Friday 17 September 2021. You can apply if you have already received a payment. The payment and eligibility criteria are the same as the current scheme. Resurgence Support Payment --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. For example, while Auckland is in Alert Levels 3 or 4, businesses in Auckland and other parts of the country can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. You can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying your staff and protect jobs. Businesses must meet the eligibility criteria to apply. Businesses and self-employed people must expect a 40% drop in revenue to be eligible to receive the wage subsidy. The wage subsidy is paid in a 2 week lump sum. You can get: $600 per week for each full-time employee $359 per week for each part-time employee You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Applications for the second August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. If you did not apply for the first Wage Subsidy you can apply for second one if you meet eligibility criteria. If you applied for the first August 2021 Wage Subsidy, you can also apply for the second Wage Subsidy 2 weeks after your previous application, if you meet eligibility criteria. Do not send in early applications — they will not be accepted as each payment is for 2 weeks. Apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs for businesses who have been directly affected when there is an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses anywhere in New Zealand can apply if they meet the eligibility criteria. You can apply for both the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme if you meet all the eligible criteria. A second round of the Resurgence Support Payment will open for applications on Friday 17 September 2021. You can apply if you have already received a payment. The payment and eligibility criteria are the same as the current scheme. Apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) If you employ 50 or fewer staff, you may be able to apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme. This is a one-off 5 year loan. You can b orrow a maximum of $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee within your business . When applying for the loan, you need to be able to declare that your business is viable. Your business must have experienced a minimum 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over the period of a month, compared with the same month last year. Applications are open until 31 December 2023 through myIR. If your business does not have a myIR account, you will need to create one to apply. Loans will be interest free if they are paid back within 2 years. The interest rate is 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme (external link) (external link) (external link) If you are finding it hard to meet your tax obligations due to COVID-19, Inland Revenue may be able to help. COVID-19 information for businesses | Inland Revenue (external link) The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to get a month’s protection while they talk to their creditors. During this period, most creditors cannot take legal action to enforce their debts, for example, applying for your business to be liquidated. If your creditors agree, you can get a further 6 months’ protection. Applications are open until 31 October 2021. Find out if business debt hibernation is an option for you (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employee has been asked to self-isolate by a doctor or health official, they legally must stay home until they are told they no longer need to by public health officials. If an employee cannot work from home while self-isolating, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. If your employees have been asked to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can also use the payment to help pay employees who: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells them they no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. The Leave Support Scheme is paid as a 2 week lump sum at the rate of: $600 a week for full-time employees $359 a week for part-time employees Employers and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. This payment is available anytime, and is not restricted to a change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employee has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, they must stay home until they get a negative result. If an employee cannot work from home, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment helps businesses keep paying employees who cannot work from home and: need to stay at home while waiting for a COVID-19 test result need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, or live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can get a one-off amount of $359 for each eligible worker while they are staying home waiting for test results. The amount is the same for both full-time and part-time employees. You can apply for the Short-term Absence Payment any time, not just when there is a risk of community transmission, or change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- Individuals and whānau Businesses COVID-19 financial support tool
Home Business and money Financial support Individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) Whānau Ora helps whānau access health and welfare services, and meet basic needs for food, accommodation, heating, internet connectivity, water and sewerage. You can contact Whānau Ora on: 0800 929 282 if you are in the North Island 0800 187 689 if you are in the South Island If you are a tertiary student, you can contact Studylink for advice. COVID-19 information for students | studylink.govt.nz (external link) If you are worried about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank or finance company about the options that are available to you. If you are having trouble paying your rent due to COVID-19, let your landlord know straight away. You may be able to work together to agree on a repayment plan, or negotiate your rent for a period of time so you can stay in your home. Information for landlords and tenants on negotiating rent (external link) If you have overdue rent and you are worried you will lose your housing, you can talk to Work and Income for support. Find out about rent arrears assistance and how to apply (external link) Your employer can apply for the August 2021 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying you during Alert Levels 3 and 4. Your employer needs to meet the eligibility criteria to apply. If your employer applies for the wage subsidy, they must pay you at least 80% of your normal pay. If they cannot, they must pass on the total amount of the subsidy to you. If you normally earn less than the subsidy amount, your employer must continue to pay your normal pay. Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. Think about whether you can work from home. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. You can also get this payment if you: need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. You can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) If you have been asked by health officials to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. You may also be eligible for this payment if you: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells you that you no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. You can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) Whānau Ora helps whānau access health and welfare services, and meet basic needs for food, accommodation, heating, internet connectivity, water and sewerage. You can contact Whānau Ora on: 0800 929 282 if you are in the North Island 0800 187 689 if you are in the South Island If you are a tertiary student, you can contact Studylink for advice. COVID-19 information for students | studylink.govt.nz (external link) If you are worried about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank or finance company about the options that are available to you. If you are having trouble paying your rent due to COVID-19, let your landlord know straight away. You may be able to work together to agree on a repayment plan, or negotiate your rent for a period of time so you can stay in your home. Information for landlords and tenants on negotiating rent (external link) If you have overdue rent and you are worried you will lose your housing, you can talk to Work and Income for support. Find out about rent arrears assistance and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your employer can apply for the August 2021 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying you during Alert Levels 3 and 4. Your employer needs to meet the eligibility criteria to apply. If your employer applies for the wage subsidy, they must pay you at least 80% of your normal pay. If they cannot, they must pass on the total amount of the subsidy to you. If you normally earn less than the subsidy amount, your employer must continue to pay your normal pay. Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. Think about whether you can work from home. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. You can also get this payment if you: need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. You can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been asked by health officials to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. You may also be eligible for this payment if you: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells you that you no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. You can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Individuals and whānau Businesses COVID-19 financial support tool
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You might be interested in Change your appointment Delta variant Vaccinations for 12 to 15-year-olds NZ Vaccine Facts Side effects Safety and effectiveness Karawhiua — information for Māori communities --- Section Separator --- Find out about booking your vaccination, what to expect at your appointment, and the vaccine rollout groups. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 September 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 2,862,765 First dose administered 2,862,765 First dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered 1,462,725 Second dose administered 68% Eligible population with 1 dose 68% Eligible population with 1 dose 35% Eligible population with 2 doses 35% Eligible population with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.
Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 148 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan – When will I get my vaccine? [PDF, 287 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 148 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan – When will I get my vaccine? [PDF, 287 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] --- Section Separator --- An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 837 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] Information about using the new national online booking system, Book My Vaccine, and the COVID Vaccination Healthline. Booking a COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.1 MB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 837 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] Information about using the new national online booking system, Book My Vaccine, and the COVID Vaccination Healthline. Booking a COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.1 MB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we did not start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) The Government has approved the Pfizer vaccine for 12 to 15-year-olds in New Zealand, following Medsafe’s provisional approval in June. The Pfizer vaccine has already been approved for 12 to 15-year-olds in Canada, the USA, Europe, and Japan. People under the age of 12 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) How the vaccine protects you — Ministry of Health (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we did not start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government has approved the Pfizer vaccine for 12 to 15-year-olds in New Zealand, following Medsafe’s provisional approval in June. The Pfizer vaccine has already been approved for 12 to 15-year-olds in Canada, the USA, Europe, and Japan. People under the age of 12 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. --- Section Separator --- Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) How the vaccine protects you — Ministry of Health (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness COVID-19 vaccine resources
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? --- Section Separator --- Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? --- Section Separator --- Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety.
Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can book your vaccination online or by phone. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can book your vaccination online or by phone. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you are required to work at Alert Level 4 and you interact with customers for your job, you may be eligible to get vaccinated now rather than waiting for your age band. Your employer will work with your local district health board (DHB) to organise these vaccinations. If you think you can get a vaccination sooner another way, please do so. We want essential workers to be vaccinated as quickly as possible. Check if you are on the list of Alert Level 4 workers If you are aged 12 or over, you can book your free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. You can book on behalf of someone else — or help them with their booking — if you have their permission. If you are a worker in a border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) setting, getting vaccinated for COVID-19 is mandatory. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations The Book My Vaccine website is the fastest and easiest way to book and make changes to your appointment. Booking through the website can take 5 minutes or less. Book My Vaccine (external link) Choose a clinic that has multiple bookings available around the time you want to get vaccinated. Book yourself first. You will need to book each person getting vaccinated into the same clinic. Email the Book My Vaccine team if you have any problems booking or need to change your details. Email: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz You can book over the phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . All calls are free, and the team are available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. You might have to wait a little while before your call is answered, as the lines can be busy — please be patient. Once your call is answered, it will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. When you call, it is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up an 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 6 weeks or more . We are extending the standard gap because it allows us to give 1 dose (partial protection) to a larger number of people faster. Early findings from a small number of well-designed studies show that an extended gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine gives at least an equally robust immune response. In some situations, you may be advised to have a shorter gap between doses. For example: if you are on a specific clinical treatment plan if you are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19. The minimum gap between doses will continue to be 21 days . Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 As well as booked appointments, there will be other ways for people to be vaccinated. These will include workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. For some remote rural communities we will vaccinate all age groups at the same time to make it easier for them. If you have a vaccination booked, please go as planned — unless you have been contacted and told it has been cancelled. To change your appointment, will need your booking reference, which can be found in the confirmation email/text you were sent when you booked. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Select ‘cancel booking’. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Select ‘reschedule’, and confirm the location for your appointment and choose a new date and time. You will receive confirmation of your new appointment via email or text. Young people aged 12 to 15 became eligible for vaccination on August 20. Each person getting vaccinated will need a separate appointment. Vaccination centres will do everything to accommodate 12 to 15-year-olds who do not have bookings, but it may not always be possible. Please call ahead, especially if your appointment is at a smaller site like a pharmacy. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] Most people will be given a card that shows the date you have been vaccinated. If you do not get a card there is no need to worry, you do not have to have one. Everyone’s vaccinations — and batch number — are recorded in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). This means that all of the important information about your vaccine has been recorded. We are working hard to develop a secure place online where you can view your COVID-19 records, including COVID-19 test results and printable vaccination certificates. This is expected to be available later this year. If you need formal proof of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a vaccination letter from the Ministry of Health. COVID-19: Requesting proof of vaccination for overseas travel (external link) If you need to travel overseas from New Zealand and meet specified criteria, you can apply for an early COVID-19 vaccine. You will need to apply at least 8 weeks before you travel. Applying for an early vaccine for overseas travel — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness --- Section Separator --- If you are required to work at Alert Level 4 and you interact with customers for your job, you may be eligible to get vaccinated now rather than waiting for your age band. Your employer will work with your local district health board (DHB) to organise these vaccinations. If you think you can get a vaccination sooner another way, please do so. We want essential workers to be vaccinated as quickly as possible. Check if you are on the list of Alert Level 4 workers --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 12 or over, you can book your free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. You can book on behalf of someone else — or help them with their booking — if you have their permission. If you are a worker in a border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) setting, getting vaccinated for COVID-19 is mandatory. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- The Book My Vaccine website is the fastest and easiest way to book and make changes to your appointment. Booking through the website can take 5 minutes or less. Book My Vaccine (external link) Choose a clinic that has multiple bookings available around the time you want to get vaccinated. Book yourself first. You will need to book each person getting vaccinated into the same clinic. Email the Book My Vaccine team if you have any problems booking or need to change your details. Email: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- You can book over the phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . All calls are free, and the team are available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. You might have to wait a little while before your call is answered, as the lines can be busy — please be patient. Once your call is answered, it will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. When you call, it is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up an 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . --- Section Separator --- For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 6 weeks or more . We are extending the standard gap because it allows us to give 1 dose (partial protection) to a larger number of people faster. Early findings from a small number of well-designed studies show that an extended gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine gives at least an equally robust immune response. In some situations, you may be advised to have a shorter gap between doses. For example: if you are on a specific clinical treatment plan if you are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19. The minimum gap between doses will continue to be 21 days . Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- As well as booked appointments, there will be other ways for people to be vaccinated. These will include workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. For some remote rural communities we will vaccinate all age groups at the same time to make it easier for them. --- Section Separator --- If you have a vaccination booked, please go as planned — unless you have been contacted and told it has been cancelled. To change your appointment, will need your booking reference, which can be found in the confirmation email/text you were sent when you booked. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Select ‘cancel booking’. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Select ‘reschedule’, and confirm the location for your appointment and choose a new date and time. You will receive confirmation of your new appointment via email or text. --- Section Separator --- Young people aged 12 to 15 became eligible for vaccination on August 20. Each person getting vaccinated will need a separate appointment. Vaccination centres will do everything to accommodate 12 to 15-year-olds who do not have bookings, but it may not always be possible. Please call ahead, especially if your appointment is at a smaller site like a pharmacy. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] --- Section Separator --- Most people will be given a card that shows the date you have been vaccinated. If you do not get a card there is no need to worry, you do not have to have one. Everyone’s vaccinations — and batch number — are recorded in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). This means that all of the important information about your vaccine has been recorded. We are working hard to develop a secure place online where you can view your COVID-19 records, including COVID-19 test results and printable vaccination certificates. This is expected to be available later this year. If you need formal proof of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a vaccination letter from the Ministry of Health. COVID-19: Requesting proof of vaccination for overseas travel (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need to travel overseas from New Zealand and meet specified criteria, you can apply for an early COVID-19 vaccine. You will need to apply at least 8 weeks before you travel. Applying for an early vaccine for overseas travel — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination. Learn more about who is in each group and when they can book their vaccination. Find out what group you are in Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccination programme has resumed, though some vaccination sites may still be closed. Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 4 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Wearing a face covering at Alert Level 4 Physical distancing requirements at the sites means there might be fewer people vaccinated. T he reduced capacity means we may need to postpone some appointments. If we need to postpone your appointment you will be contacted by the Ministry of Health, your DHB, or healthcare provider. If you do not hear anything, please come to your appointment as scheduled. The Government is expanding the list of Alert Level 4 workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Once it is your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. --- Section Separator --- Group 1 includes people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). It is mandatory for workers at MIQ facilities, ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 to get vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- The Government is expanding the list of Alert Level 4 workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. Group 2 will now also include frontline staff who interact with customers and transport and logistic services directly supporting the vaccination programme. You are also in Group 2 if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare worker (public or private) work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 12 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live with or care for an older Māori or Pacific person live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you: are aged 65 or over are eligible for a publicly funded influenza vaccine Eligibility criteria: Influenza vaccination (external link) are pregnant are disabled, or are caring for a person with a disability are severely obese (defined as a BMI ≥40) BMI calculator (external link) have high blood pressure requiring 2 or more medications for control are an adult in a custodial setting have been diagnosed with a severe mental illness ( which includes schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder or schizoaffective disorder, and adults currently accessing secondary and tertiary mental health and addiction services). How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Everyone aged 12 and over can book from Wednesday 1 September. Once it is your time, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. We have ordered more than enough Pfizer vaccines for everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over to be able to be vaccinated by the end of the year. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines Apply for an early vaccination (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 3 and 4 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Wearing a face covering Physical distancing requirements at the sites means there might be fewer people vaccinated. T he reduced capacity means we may need to postpone some appointments. If we need to postpone your appointment you will be contacted by the Ministry of Health, your DHB, or healthcare provider. If you do not hear anything, please come to your appointment as scheduled. A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. We will record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR), including the batch number. You will be given a card that shows the date you have been vaccinated. If you do not get a card there is no need to worry, you do not have to have one. We are working hard to develop a secure place online where you can view your COVID-19 records, including COVID-19 test results and printable vaccination certificates. The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus cannot give you COVID-19 cannot affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects For the best protection, it's important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 6 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccine fact sheets COVID-19 vaccine posters, flyers and videos --- Section Separator --- Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 3 and 4 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Wearing a face covering Physical distancing requirements at the sites means there might be fewer people vaccinated. T he reduced capacity means we may need to postpone some appointments. If we need to postpone your appointment you will be contacted by the Ministry of Health, your DHB, or healthcare provider. If you do not hear anything, please come to your appointment as scheduled. --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. We will record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR), including the batch number. You will be given a card that shows the date you have been vaccinated. If you do not get a card there is no need to worry, you do not have to have one. We are working hard to develop a secure place online where you can view your COVID-19 records, including COVID-19 test results and printable vaccination certificates. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus cannot give you COVID-19 cannot affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects --- Section Separator --- For the best protection, it's important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 6 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccine fact sheets COVID-19 vaccine posters, flyers and videos --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, including myocarditis, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 vaccine — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, including myocarditis, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine development, safety and effectiveness Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 vaccine — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become mandatory for most border workers (air and port) to be vaccinated. This is required by new legislation. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendments Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated All government employees must have had their first dose by 26 August 2021. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September 2021. After the dates above, any new workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. If you have not already been been invited to book, your employer or PCBU must enter your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). The BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. If you are a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted about booking your vaccination, talk to your employer. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. Alongside workers at MIQ facilities, workers at our ports and border are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a border environment until they vaccinated. The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption comes into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption — Ministry of Transport (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 716 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become mandatory for most border workers (air and port) to be vaccinated. This is required by new legislation. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendments Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated --- Section Separator --- All government employees must have had their first dose by 26 August 2021. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September 2021. After the dates above, any new workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. --- Section Separator --- If you have not already been been invited to book, your employer or PCBU must enter your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). The BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. If you are a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted about booking your vaccination, talk to your employer. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. Alongside workers at MIQ facilities, workers at our ports and border are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a border environment until they vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption comes into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption — Ministry of Transport (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 716 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Find out if a worker must get vaccinated Find out if a worker must get vaccinated Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Mandatory vaccinations for border and MIQ workers It is already compulsory for MIQ facility workers, some cabin crew, and Government officials that enter a high-risk border setting to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become compulsory for most port and border workers to be vaccinated. This is required by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021. To find out if a worker is affected Answer the following questions. Your results will tell you if a worker must get vaccinated, when by, and how to book their vaccinations. --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ worker vaccinations COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Resources for the border sector — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Vaccine information for businesses --- Section Separator --- The Government is expanding the list of essential workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. DHBs will work directly with employers to organise vaccinations for this group. Find out more about Group 2 A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: allowing them time off to get the vaccine talking to them about their leave and pay entitlements if they need time off to go to their appointment or if they feel unwell after getting the vaccine talking to them about the safety of the vaccine, and how getting vaccinated will help create a safe and healthy workplace for everyone respecting their privacy listening to their concerns. Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: directing them to official sources for accurate and up-to-date information, including: vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) checking everyone can access the information if they need it. As part of the vaccine rollout for Group 4, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: be a large workplace or employer — for example 1000+ employees and able to vaccinate several hundred staff per site or be a workplace that has high Māori, Pacific or ethnic populations and those who may find it harder to get a vaccination — for example, due to rural locations or shift work And will: have previously delivered a vaccine programme onsite and have an existing relationship with a vaccine provider and be able to provide staff to undertake specified roles and responsibilities, particularly around worker engagement. Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- The Government is expanding the list of essential workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. DHBs will work directly with employers to organise vaccinations for this group. Find out more about Group 2 --- Section Separator --- A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: allowing them time off to get the vaccine talking to them about their leave and pay entitlements if they need time off to go to their appointment or if they feel unwell after getting the vaccine talking to them about the safety of the vaccine, and how getting vaccinated will help create a safe and healthy workplace for everyone respecting their privacy listening to their concerns. Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: directing them to official sources for accurate and up-to-date information, including: vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) checking everyone can access the information if they need it. --- Section Separator --- As part of the vaccine rollout for Group 4, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: be a large workplace or employer — for example 1000+ employees and able to vaccinate several hundred staff per site or be a workplace that has high Māori, Pacific or ethnic populations and those who may find it harder to get a vaccination — for example, due to rural locations or shift work And will: have previously delivered a vaccine programme onsite and have an existing relationship with a vaccine provider and be able to provide staff to undertake specified roles and responsibilities, particularly around worker engagement. Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Vaccine information for workers --- Section Separator --- The Government is expanding the list of essential workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. DHBs will work directly with employers to organise vaccinations for this group. Find out who is included in Group 2 The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 12 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Who can get a vaccination Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the Group 4 rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- The Government is expanding the list of essential workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. DHBs will work directly with employers to organise vaccinations for this group. Find out who is included in Group 2 --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 12 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. --- Section Separator --- Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Who can get a vaccination Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the Group 4 rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. --- Section Separator --- Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. --- Section Separator --- Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. How to get medical advice, health services and emergency services at the different Alert Levels. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. How to get medical advice, health services and emergency services at the different Alert Levels. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been.
Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads and the current variants of concern. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads and the current variants of concern. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19.
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a fever of at least 38°C a new or worsening cough sore throat shortness of breath sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting confusion or irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a fever of at least 38°C a new or worsening cough sore throat shortness of breath sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting confusion or irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking — Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support for individuals and whānau At Alert Level 1, there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. At Alert Level 2, we need to reduce our contact with others. There is some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep a 2 metres away from others. You must wear a face covering at some places. When you must wear a face covering Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. Y ou must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people you do not know, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 3. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Limit interactions with others — at Alert Level 3 we can expand our bubbles to connect with close whānau and friends, but it's important to keep it exclusive. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. At Alert Level 4, you need to stay home. Everyone must stay in their bubble. You can leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare or going to the supermarket. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 4. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking — Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, we need to reduce our contact with others. There is some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep a 2 metres away from others. You must wear a face covering at some places. When you must wear a face covering Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. Y ou must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people you do not know, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 3. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Limit interactions with others — at Alert Level 3 we can expand our bubbles to connect with close whānau and friends, but it's important to keep it exclusive. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you need to stay home. Everyone must stay in their bubble. You can leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare or going to the supermarket. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 4. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we are in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we are in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you have been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you have been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instruction on what to do. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. COVID-19 symptoms can include one or more of the following: new or worsening cough fever shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the specified dates and times, you legally must: isolate at your home or accomodation continue to isolate until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are a secondary contact, you do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You will need to continue staying at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommended you wear a face covering. Ask friends and family to shop for you or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. --- Section Separator --- Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instruction on what to do. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. --- Section Separator --- If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. COVID-19 symptoms can include one or more of the following: new or worsening cough fever shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. --- Section Separator --- Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the specified dates and times, you legally must: isolate at your home or accomodation continue to isolate until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are a secondary contact, you do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You will need to continue staying at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommended you wear a face covering. Ask friends and family to shop for you or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19 Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert will not be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert will not be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. You may be interested in List of locations of interest If your business is a location of interest Map of locations of interest Record your location of interest visit online Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- There is a large, growing number of locations of interest. These will be constantly updated. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately isolate at your home or accommodation and either: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating, or record your visit to a location of interest online. Record your visit online (external link) If you record your visit online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation continue isolating until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. Members of the household who were not at a location of interest can only leave home to exercise. They can exercise while waiting for the results of their test if they keep 2 metres apart from others. People in the household are not permitted to go to the supermarket or visit other essential services. We encourage you to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to drop off groceries and other essential supplies to you. If you work in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, or you provide an essential health service, you can leave home to go to work earlier than day 5. You must meet other criteria. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you've been in Australia, check the locations of interest for the states or territories you are in. ACT (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: scan QR codes to create a private digital diary of the places you visit — the more we scan the safer we will be use Bluetooth tracing to keep an anonymised record of the people you have been near — turn it on under the 'Dashboard' section register your contact details in the 'My data' section so contact tracers can get in touch if they need to How to register your information (external link) save your National Health Index (NHI) number in the 'My data' section to speed up the process if you need a test Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link) add more details after you have scanned a QR code in the text box, such as who you are with or what you were doing — it is a great way to keep track of friends or whānau who do not have the app add a manual entry if you cannot scan a QR code — you can view and edit your diary at any time use a previous scan to manually backfill your diary save locations you go to frequently. --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you have been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you have been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you have been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scanning protects what you love How contact tracing keeps us safe Bluetooth tracing: It is an early warning Bluetooth tracing and scanning work together --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: businesses or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Information on record keeping and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Get information about the NZ COVID Tracer app in other languages and alternate formats.
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you are there, and when you can safely return home. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you are there, and when you can safely return home.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Community Testing Centres --- Section Separator --- Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a testing location near you (external link) Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Please be patient as there may be longer than normal wait times for Healthline due to the current demand. If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders — health.govt.nz (external link) Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Auckland testing locations — Auckland Regional Public Health Service (external link) COVID-19 testing centres across New Zealand — Healthpoint (external link) When you go for a test, wear a face covering, scan in using the QR code on site, and if possible take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up a new 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . It may take a little while to receive your results due to the volume of people getting tested at the moment. Positive results tend to be confirmed within 48 hours, negative test results can take longer. Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you are told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. Once they are completed, either a community health professional or your doctor will let you know. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) Financial support for individuals and wh ānau Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Please be patient as there may be longer than normal wait times for Healthline due to the current demand. If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders — health.govt.nz (external link) Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Auckland testing locations — Auckland Regional Public Health Service (external link) COVID-19 testing centres across New Zealand — Healthpoint (external link) When you go for a test, wear a face covering, scan in using the QR code on site, and if possible take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up a new 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . It may take a little while to receive your results due to the volume of people getting tested at the moment. Positive results tend to be confirmed within 48 hours, negative test results can take longer. --- Section Separator --- Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you are told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. Once they are completed, either a community health professional or your doctor will let you know. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) Financial support for individuals and wh ānau --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. What self-isolating means (external link) If you live in Auckland and you test positive for COVID-19 in the community, you must go into a managed isolation facility for 14 days. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. If you have pets that will need to be looked after while you are away from home, you will have time to make these arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don not need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $600 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $359 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme — Work and Income (external link) Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. What self-isolating means (external link) If you live in Auckland and you test positive for COVID-19 in the community, you must go into a managed isolation facility for 14 days. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. If you have pets that will need to be looked after while you are away from home, you will have time to make these arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don not need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $600 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $359 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme — Work and Income (external link) Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If you or someone is in danger, call 111 . It is okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you are not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (24 hours a day, 7 days a week) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else. You can also chat online for free. Talk to someone online. (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 - a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. If you or someone is in danger, call 111 . --- Section Separator --- It is okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you are not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (24 hours a day, 7 days a week) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else. You can also chat online for free. Talk to someone online. (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 - a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare and emergency services --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing call Plunketline on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) At all Alert Levels healthcare facilities and businesses will take precautions against the risk of COVID-19 transmission. These can include: risk screening on arrival contact tracing providing services over the phone or online if you have any symptoms asking you to wear a face covering while visiting the healthcare facility. When accessing healthcare, you must take precautions against the spread of COVID-19, including: physical distancing wash or sanitise your hands keep track of where you have been wear a face covering, where possible. Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. At Level 4 , cancer centres must follow the physical distancing guidelines which may impact how treatment is delivered. It is extremely important that we protect people living with cancer from the risk of catching COVID-19. Te Aho o Te Kahu, New Zealand's Cancer Control Agency, provides more information about Cancer care during COVID-19. Learn more about Cancer care during Alert Levels 1-4 (external link) Routine screening will be paused for breast and cervical screening services. Bowel screening will continue. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) Healthcare and disability services will run as normal at Alert Level 1. Health and disability services at Alert Level 1 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, where possible health and disability services will open and operate as normal. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Community health services and screening services will continue. Disability and aged care services continue under Alert Level 2, with extra consideration given to how at-risk people are. Health and disability services at Alert Level 2 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3, we need to restrict our movements. You should only leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare. Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will remain open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. When visiting a healthcare facility at Alert Level 3, you must wear a face covering. Any appointments with a medical professional will need to be online or over the phone, where possible. Community health services and screening services can continue. Some disability and aged care services can continue but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Health and disability services at Alert Level 3 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, you can only leave your house for essential personal movements, for example accessing healthcare like GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. Healthcare facilities will open and operate, where possible. You can access the treatments and medicines that you need to stay well. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs at any Alert Level. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. If you need medical assistance, phone your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 first. You can travel to a healthcare facility, but it is recommended you call the facility before you go, so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you might need to use a certain entrance, or to wait outside in your car until called. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Health and disability services at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) Call your doctor if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor can set up an appointment online or over the phone. Pharmacies will open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, call them first to make sure you can go instore. If you are an at-risk group you may want to ask someone to pick up your medications for you. At Alert Level 4, disability and aged care services will continue. Some home help may be available if it can be accessed safely. Carers are permitted to work at Alert Level 4. If you are a carer travelling to provide care or support for a person who is in a critical or terminal condition, we recommend you carry proof of your travel. This can include a letter from a medical professional confirming there is a person who needs urgent care or support and your destination. At Alert Level 4, health services will continue to operate. However, there may be some changes to the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. Contact your midwife or doctor if you have any concerns. When you give birth, maternity facilities may have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing call Plunketline on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels healthcare facilities and businesses will take precautions against the risk of COVID-19 transmission. These can include: risk screening on arrival contact tracing providing services over the phone or online if you have any symptoms asking you to wear a face covering while visiting the healthcare facility. When accessing healthcare, you must take precautions against the spread of COVID-19, including: physical distancing wash or sanitise your hands keep track of where you have been wear a face covering, where possible. --- Section Separator --- Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. At Level 4 , cancer centres must follow the physical distancing guidelines which may impact how treatment is delivered. It is extremely important that we protect people living with cancer from the risk of catching COVID-19. Te Aho o Te Kahu, New Zealand's Cancer Control Agency, provides more information about Cancer care during COVID-19. Learn more about Cancer care during Alert Levels 1-4 (external link) Routine screening will be paused for breast and cervical screening services. Bowel screening will continue. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthcare and disability services will run as normal at Alert Level 1. Health and disability services at Alert Level 1 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, where possible health and disability services will open and operate as normal. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Community health services and screening services will continue. Disability and aged care services continue under Alert Level 2, with extra consideration given to how at-risk people are. Health and disability services at Alert Level 2 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we need to restrict our movements. You should only leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare. Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will remain open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. When visiting a healthcare facility at Alert Level 3, you must wear a face covering. Any appointments with a medical professional will need to be online or over the phone, where possible. Community health services and screening services can continue. Some disability and aged care services can continue but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Health and disability services at Alert Level 3 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you can only leave your house for essential personal movements, for example accessing healthcare like GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. Healthcare facilities will open and operate, where possible. You can access the treatments and medicines that you need to stay well. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs at any Alert Level. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. If you need medical assistance, phone your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 first. You can travel to a healthcare facility, but it is recommended you call the facility before you go, so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you might need to use a certain entrance, or to wait outside in your car until called. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Health and disability services at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) Call your doctor if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor can set up an appointment online or over the phone. Pharmacies will open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, call them first to make sure you can go instore. If you are an at-risk group you may want to ask someone to pick up your medications for you. At Alert Level 4, disability and aged care services will continue. Some home help may be available if it can be accessed safely. Carers are permitted to work at Alert Level 4. If you are a carer travelling to provide care or support for a person who is in a critical or terminal condition, we recommend you carry proof of your travel. This can include a letter from a medical professional confirming there is a person who needs urgent care or support and your destination. At Alert Level 4, health services will continue to operate. However, there may be some changes to the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. Contact your midwife or doctor if you have any concerns. When you give birth, maternity facilities may have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing.
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Free tools, resources and apps --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 | depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) --- Section Separator --- Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 | depression.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone: 0508 326 459 Email: contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you are worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone: 0508 326 459 Email: contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. Free tools, resources and apps There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) It's illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harm, illegal material or inappropriate online contact It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. --- Section Separator --- For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. Free tools, resources and apps --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) It's illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harm, illegal material or inappropriate online contact --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 — a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk. Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) What's Up? — call 0800 942 8787 — a safe place for tamariki and rangatahi to talk. Find out more about What's Up? (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealanders on how to get a COVID-9 vaccination, our vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealanders on how to get a COVID-9 vaccination, our vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) --- Section Separator --- CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. --- Section Separator --- If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. If in doubt, rule it out. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are useful when physical distancing is harder. You legally must wear a face covering in some locations. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself. You are also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Keep our persistence and socially distance. Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Clean surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to around 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to around 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them from getting on your hands. A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Wearing a face covering is an extra protective physical barrier to help keep you and others safe by stopping the spread of COVID-19. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. You can also cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put them in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them from getting on your hands. --- Section Separator --- A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Wearing a face covering is an extra protective physical barrier to help keep you and others safe by stopping the spread of COVID-19. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. --- Section Separator --- You can also cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put them in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you have been Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can find QR code posters at many locations you visit. Scan these using the NZ COVID Tracer app to create a private digital diary of the places you visit. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. You can also turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you have been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for you to record that you have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. Locations legally must have more than one way for you to record your visit, especially if you are not able to scan QR codes. Ways you will be able to record your visit include: scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app providing your details to the location filling in your details on a slip of paper to put in a collection box using a location's existing record-keeping systems, such as swipe-card access or appointment bookings. Businesses still need to continue displaying a QR code poster even if it is not required to collect customer records. Record keeping and contact tracing for businesses Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. When you leave your home, keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. This means making the space when you are in places like playgrounds, parks, shops, or walking along the street. Businesses must make sure workers can keep 1 metre apart, where possible. When using public transport, you must be seated — you are not permitted to stand, unless you are on a dedicated school bus. At restaurants, cafes and bars, there must be 1 metre between adjacent tables. At event facilities such as cinemas, stadiums, and concert venues, everyone must keep 1 metre apart, except for friends and families. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. Outside of your home keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. When you leave your home, keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. This means making the space when you are in places like playgrounds, parks, shops, or walking along the street. Businesses must make sure workers can keep 1 metre apart, where possible. When using public transport, you must be seated — you are not permitted to stand, unless you are on a dedicated school bus. At restaurants, cafes and bars, there must be 1 metre between adjacent tables. At event facilities such as cinemas, stadiums, and concert venues, everyone must keep 1 metre apart, except for friends and families. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a fever of at least 38°C a new or worsening cough sore throat shortness of breath sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting confusion or irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. COVID-19 symptoms You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommended you wear a face covering. Ask friends and family to shop for you or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. More information about COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More information about COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a fever of at least 38°C a new or worsening cough sore throat shortness of breath sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting confusion or irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommended you wear a face covering. Ask friends and family to shop for you or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. More information about COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More information about COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse hands with running water. Dry hands thoroughly. Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands, as long as you use soap. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. When done correctly. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse hands with running water. Dry hands thoroughly. --- Section Separator --- Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands, as long as you use soap. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. When done correctly. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Face coverings can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. --- Section Separator --- In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others, like in crowded indoor places. You legally must wear a face covering when: on public transport on flights. We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Our movements at Alert Level 3 and 4 are restricted, so some of these locations and services may not be open or operating at higher Alert Levels. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare or aged care facility inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores inside public venues, such as museums and libraries, but not swimming pools visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, and social service providers. --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face covering if you are a driver of: a taxi or ride-share vehicle public transport. You legally must wear a face covering if you are an employee involving customer contact at a business or service. Our movements at Alert Level 3 and 4 are restricted, so some of these locations and services may not be open or operating at higher Alert Levels. You must wear a face covering if you work: at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post at a retail store that is open at Alert Level 2 as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle at a cafe, restaurant, bar, nightclub, soup kitchen or any other food or drink business in a customer-facing role for a close contact service — for example, barbers, hairdressers or beauty therapists at an indoor public facility — for example, a library or museum — employees working at a swimming pool or gym are encouraged but not required to wear a face covering in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. Working safely at different Alert Levels Face covering posters for businesses --- Section Separator --- In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. We know people want to do the right thing, in these locations you are not required to wear a face covering, but we strongly encourage you to if possible. Hospitality venues — people cannot eat while wearing a face covering. As a customer you will be seated and separated, you are not required to wear a face covering. But are encouraged to wear one when you are not eating or drinking. Employees must wear a face covering. Going to barbers, beauty therapists and hairdressers or accessing other close contact businesses, a face covering can become impractical in these situations. You are encouraged to wear one if possible. Employees must wear a face covering. If you work in an environment that does not have customers or is not public facing, for example an office or factory floor. Worship or faith-based gatherings, for example church services. At schools or tertiary education facilities — we strongly encourage those 12 and over to wear a face covering, but it is not a required. Special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides — you are encouraged to wear a face covering but it is not required. When exercising, this includes outside, at a gym, group exercise and dance classes. --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz . --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to prevent you from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect you from becoming infected. A face covering needs to go over your nose and mouth. A suitable reusable or disposable face covering is needed to help protect against the airborne spread of COVID-19. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Many stores and online retailers now offer face coverings. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to buy one. You can make one with what you have available at home. How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. --- Section Separator --- Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
--- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information specifically for disabled people. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information specifically for disabled people. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages.
All COVID-19 vaccination information is constantly under review. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description Order information about COVID-19 in braille format. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description Order information about COVID-19 in braille format.
An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: are visually impaired cannot keep their eyes on the screen because they are doing something — for example, cooking want help keeping track of details in the story. Find out more about audio description (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out more about the COVID-19 vaccine Find out why it is important to wear a face covering Find out about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Audio description Contact tracing (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Looking after your community (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Looking after your community (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Looking after your community (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Looking after your community (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Audio description Looking after your community (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Looking after your community (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Looking after your community (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Email admin@abcnz.org.nz Call 04 389 0033 or 0800 222 694 --- Section Separator --- If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Email admin@abcnz.org.nz Call 04 389 0033 or 0800 222 694 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Information in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Find out more about the COVID-19 virus Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you get your vaccine Find out what you need to do if you are travelling to and from New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do at the different Alert Levels Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19 Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 14 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 14 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] What is Alert Level 2? [DOCX, 20 MB] What is Alert Level 2? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Travelling in New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] What is Alert Level 3? [DOCX, 18 MB] What is Alert Level 3? [PDF, 4 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] What is Alert Level 4? [DOCX, 12 MB] What is Alert Level 4? [PDF, 3.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 7.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is Alert Level 2? [DOCX, 20 MB] What is Alert Level 2? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Travelling in New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is Alert Level 3? [DOCX, 18 MB] What is Alert Level 3? [PDF, 4 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is Alert Level 4? [DOCX, 12 MB] What is Alert Level 4? [PDF, 3.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 7.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 6.3 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 6.3 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 900 KB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] --- Section Separator --- What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 900 KB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Information about COVID-19 in Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines information in Easy Read Looking after your community information in Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand information in Easy Read Getting support information in Easy Read Information about the Alert Levels in Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we are using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [DOCX, 72 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [MP3, 371 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] Opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] Fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] Closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] Information about quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and other countries. Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [DOCX, 41 KB] Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [MP3, 983 KB] Information about living at Alert Level 1. Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 75 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 3.5 MB] Living at Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 535 KB] Living at Alert Level 4 [MP3, 1.3 MB] Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth and personal protective equipment (PPE) Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 1.1 MB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [MP3, 2 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we are using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [DOCX, 72 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [MP3, 371 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] Opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] Fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] Closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and other countries. Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [DOCX, 41 KB] Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [MP3, 983 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about living at Alert Level 1. Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 75 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 535 KB] Living at Alert Level 4 [MP3, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth and personal protective equipment (PPE) Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 1.1 MB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [MP3, 2 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts (external link) COVID-19 vaccines rollout plan (external link) Change to the recommended vaccine dose gap (external link) Group 1 — Protect our border and MIQ workers (external link) Group 2 — Protect our high-risk frontline workers and people living in high-risk places (external link) Group 3 — Protect the people who are at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 (external link) Group 4 — Protect everyone (external link) Information about Group 4 vaccinations (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Living at Alert Level 4 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines rollout plan (external link) Change to the recommended vaccine dose gap (external link) Group 1 — Protect our border and MIQ workers (external link) Group 2 — Protect our high-risk frontline workers and people living in high-risk places (external link) Group 3 — Protect the people who are at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 (external link) Group 4 — Protect everyone (external link) Information about Group 4 vaccinations (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
This section contains information specifically for disabled people. Information in alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check our the free services and resources available to you --- Section Separator --- If services can be provided (including digitally) within Alert Level restrictions, they are contractually required to do so. Disability residential care and aged residential care must continue to be available. Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, should be provided as usual. Essential home help, such as house cleaning, is or should be available where appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) is used. Planned respite services will be suspended, but urgent respite care may be provided. Essential supported living services can continue. Support persons are permitted under right 8 of the Health and Disability Code. For aged residential care, hospices and disability residential care, family visits are not permitted Family visits on compassionate grounds, such as in a palliative situation, will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the facility nursing staff, subject to public health advice, provider assessment and COVID-19 risk screening. Visits will be by appointment only. There is a limit to the number of designated visitors at one time. --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face covering on public transport, including planes, at all Alert Levels. At Alert Level 3 and 4, you legally must wear a face covering if you are a customer or an employee involving customer contact at a business or service operating at these alert levels. Wear a face covering However, we know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. You can request a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz --- Section Separator --- Group 1, 2 and 3 vaccinations are underway COVID-19 vaccine: How does the vaccine work? --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. It doesn’t matter what your visa or citizenship status is. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Under the Health Code, you have the right to be told everything about your health and the care that you are receiving. You must give informed consent before any procedure takes place, including getting a vaccine. Before asking for your consent, your doctor or healthcare provider should clearly explain to you: what happens during the procedure what other options there might be what you can expect after the procedure any risks that may be associated with the procedure. You can also ask any questions that you may have about the procedure. For more information on informed consent, read ’Right 7’ of the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights. Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights (external link) --- Section Separator --- Supported decision-making is considered best practice by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with a Disability (UNCRPD), of which New Zealand is a signatory. Supported decision-making is recognised as a right for everyone in New Zealand. Supported decision-making is a way for people to make their own decisions based on their will and preferences, so they have control of their life. It ensures the person who needs support is at the centre of all decisions that concern them. Supported decision-making is different from ‘substitute decision-making’. Substitute decision-making is when someone else makes decisions for a person, including making decisions in the person’s best interests. Substitute decision-making has often been used: informally, by family or friends, or formally, such as an Enduring Power of Attorney or by service providers. However, now there is a move to supported decision-making. Supported decision-making | msd.govt.nz (external link) Ministry of Health COVID-19 vaccination program: Guidance and practical tools for supporting disabled people with decision-making and consent [PDF, 1.5 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand, when you use a health or disability service you have rights. The rights are called the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights or "the Code". You have the right to: be treated with respect be treated fairly dignity and independence have good care and support that fits your needs be told things in a way that you understand be told everything you need to know about your care and support make choices about your care and support have support decide if you want to be part of training, teaching, or research make a complaint. More information on your rights | hdc.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Information for Māori You might be interested in: Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Funerals and tangihanga Karawhiua vaccine campaign Information in te reo Māori Guidance for marae Physical distancing — including hongi and harirū Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check our the free services and resources available to you (external link) --- Section Separator --- These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- Karawhiua is a campaign for whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Karawhiua is led by Te Puni Kōkiri, co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite against COVID-19 teams. Learn more about vaccines at the Karawhiua website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested.
Home Iwi and communities Information for Māori Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people, and only for tangihanga or weddings. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2, they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Events, entertainment and public facilities at Alert Level 2 At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that do not require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. At Alert Level 3 up to 10 people are allowed at marae, but only for tangihanga or wedding services. Marae may choose to close. The 10-people limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, as well as representatives of the hāhi who are attending. Stand 2 metres away from other people at the gathering. Wearing a face covering is also encouraged. Hongi, harirū, and kihi should be avoided until a return to Alert Level 1. Use another form of greeting people that does not require touching. No food or drink may be served. Marae must, as far as reasonably practicable, ensure each person who attends the tangihanga or wedding service scans the QR code for the gathering, or provides details in a contact tracing record that is kept by a person responsible for or attending the gathering. If every person at the gathering knows or can identify every other person for the purpose of contact tracing then this is not required. All marae are closed at Alert Level 4. Marae can assist whānau via email, text and phone contact to ensure they have access to cultural and technology support if needed. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people, and only for tangihanga or weddings. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2, they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Events, entertainment and public facilities at Alert Level 2 At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that do not require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 up to 10 people are allowed at marae, but only for tangihanga or wedding services. Marae may choose to close. The 10-people limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, as well as representatives of the hāhi who are attending. Stand 2 metres away from other people at the gathering. Wearing a face covering is also encouraged. Hongi, harirū, and kihi should be avoided until a return to Alert Level 1. Use another form of greeting people that does not require touching. No food or drink may be served. Marae must, as far as reasonably practicable, ensure each person who attends the tangihanga or wedding service scans the QR code for the gathering, or provides details in a contact tracing record that is kept by a person responsible for or attending the gathering. If every person at the gathering knows or can identify every other person for the purpose of contact tracing then this is not required. --- Section Separator --- All marae are closed at Alert Level 4. Marae can assist whānau via email, text and phone contact to ensure they have access to cultural and technology support if needed. --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guidance for marae
Home Iwi and communities Support and information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- 0800 Ola Lelei – 0800 652 535 Check out the range of free services and resources available to you --- Section Separator --- The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Book your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support.
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Buy local to support locals --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Community heroes Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- David Dewhurst is one of 80 volunteers who made up the QLDC COVID-19 Emergency Response Team from March to June 2020. With COVID-19 shutting our borders and businesses, thousands, mostly migrants, were out of work, unable to pay for groceries and rent, and ineligible for government support. Elderly and vulnerable community members were unable to shop safely to get essential groceries and medication. Anxiety rose, mental health and well-being suffered; the community responded. From March 24 to June 30, 23,342 requests for emergency support were submitted by 7,377 people living in the Queenstown Lakes area (population 39,153). Volunteers worked unpaid on a two-days on, two-days off roster to make hundreds of calls to people who had submitted requests for support. Through a rigorous needs assessment system, thousands of people were able to access the Civil Defence-funded supermarket voucher scheme to get food. Volunteers also responded to requests for accommodation, financial support, mental health assistance, assistance with pets, and language help. The QLDC Emergency Response Team was a semi-finalist in the Mitre 10 NZ Community of the Year 2021 awards (external link) . Watch David’s story (external link) --- Section Separator --- Manish Pandey is the vice president of Christchurch Multicultural Council. During the lockdown, Manish, in association with the Indian High Commission and community groups, assisted international students and new migrant families get access to food and other essentials. He also helped by translating official COVID-19 advice and news for the Indian community. Manish is a volunteer for the Office of Ethnic Communities as information facilitator on its Multilingual Information Network, working with OEC to help share important government information - ensuring New Zealand’s ethnic communities receive material in languages and ways that work for them. --- Section Separator --- Sikh temples around New Zealand responded to the national lockdown and the Alert Level 3 changes by distributing thousands of food parcels to hungry people. The Supreme Sikh Society observed that as the national lockdown continued last year, an increasing number of people were struggling to get access to food. During this time, the society estimated its temples distributed free meals and food parcels to 66,000 families from Auckland to Queenstown. For this work, the Society received the New Zealand Food Heroes People’s Choice Award in 2020. The award acknowledged: “The scale and compassion to vulnerable communities by the Supreme Sikh Society is impressive. Their timely and valuable response to the challenges of COVID show a dedication to the greater good.” In Auckland, Counties Manukau Police classified the Sikh temple in Takanini as an essential service provider where its Sikh volunteers even ensured a contactless system for collecting food where drivers were asked to drive in one gate, open their boot for a volunteer to load the parcel, before driving out through another gate. Sikh society wins prestigious award for service to community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Allen Lim is a horticulturalist at Jade Garden in the Selwyn District, near Christchurch. During lockdown last year when wholesale suppliers were shut, he donated vegetables to community food banks which were running out of food. He and his group of tramping friends had come up with the idea to supply food banks because they were aware of the food shortages. He says he could not have done without his tramping group who helped to get the produce out of the ground because although there was a surplus of produce, he was struggling to keep up with the demand from the supermarkets at the time. --- Section Separator --- Rozina Shaheen, known as Tooba Habib, originally from Pakistan, moved to Christchurch in 2007. She is a well-known community leader and volunteer among Canterbury’s ethnic communities and is the women’s coordinator of Muslim Association of Canterbury. Tooba spent last year helping some of the 15 March Christchurch terror attack victims but also provided support and coordination for international students and their families left isolated in New Zealand because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She helped these families get access to financial assistance as part of her ‘Support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ’ programme. Tooba is grateful for the kind hearts of New Zealanders who provided emotional and financial support to those in the community who are in need. --- Section Separator --- Eva Chen is an Auckland Council Ethnicity Peoples Advisory Panel member and a Strategies for Kids, Information for Parents (SKIP) Champion with Oranga Tamariki’s SKIP programme working with immigrant communities. Eva co-founded the Wellbeing Charitable Trust which has been working with Asian communities since 2014. She led a COVID-19 support programme to help ensure that New Zealand’s Chinese communities had access to official COVID-19 information. Just before lockdown, Eva set up the Mt Albert Chinese business support group to ensure people remained connected and supported. A key aim was to prevent family harm during a stressful time. She helped provide daily COVID-19 information updates in Chinese. Since July 2020, her group has focused on post-COVID-19 support for individuals and families, helping with the consequences of bullying and racism. Wellbeing Charitable Trust (external link) --- Section Separator --- Narinder Singh Warraich, originally from northern India, is the president of the Canterbury Punjabi Association. During the national lockdown, Narinder and his team assisted international students, stranded visitors and new migrant families by distributing food and face masks. He translated COVID-19 advice and news and used community radio and social media to keep the community informed. After the lockdown, Narinder took the initiative of organising workshops for people who had lost their jobs. One job fair attracted over 120 participants and connected unemployed people to Work and Income Work Brokers. Christchurch City MP Dr Duncan Webb acknowledged the work of the Association with a Members’ motion in Parliament on 26 May 2020, asking the House to “express its gratitude to the Canterbury Punjabi Association for the outstanding work it did over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown in supporting both its own community and the wider Canterbury community by the provision of free food parcels to anyone in need, in keeping with the best Punjabi tradition of daswandh and selfless service”. --- Section Separator --- Jane Potts is a St John Volunteer Ambulance Officer in Darfield. She attended ambulance callouts at any time of the day or night through all Alert Levels during the lockdown. This was unpaid. It required her to leave her safety bubble in order to save lives. Jane was awarded a Selwyn District Council COVID Heroes Award for her selfless dedication and professionalism to the community. --- Section Separator --- Jessica Phuang led her police team of 11 ethnic liaison officers to ensure that ethnic communities did not become victims of scams or racism. They gathered feedback on challenges faced in dealing with different government agencies, and to give advice and suggestions to those agencies on how to meet the needs of these communities. The team also linked ethnic communities to appropriate service providers and helped keep them updated with COVID-19 news. Through some ethnic social media channels, they were able to counteract misinformation and co-opt these channels to work with police. The team also contacted international students and tourists stranded in New Zealand without support to ensure that they were getting assistance. --- Section Separator --- Russ Carroll was a key person in the supply line of essential goods for delivery to workers and communities. During lockdown, he managed the delivery of thousands of online orders made by New Zealanders isolating in their homes. His motivated team worked long hours during a time of great uncertainty. Physical distancing rules had to be implemented together with a lane system to allow staff to get around the shop safely and efficiently. Workers would handpick products, pack stock and process orders, dealing with up to 2,500 packages a day. Russ is grateful for the support he received from the company, which in turn meant he could offer the best support for his team during an unprecedented time. --- Section Separator --- Vincents Art Workshop is a Wellington social service that welcomes people with disabilities, those moving into the community from institutions, the unemployed, people on low incomes and others. During lockdown and throughout 2020, its tutors provided connections and activities for its community of artists. The Vincents Artist Group on Facebook grew to 188 members. Staff published tutorials on its Facebook page, website, YouTube and on the Arts Access Aotearoa Facebook page to keep its artists busy. Tutors were careful to suggest using art materials that were commonly available at home or in people’s gardens. Regular communication with all its artists was vital to keep everyone connected and safe. Staff often held phone conversations with artists, their family members or support people when there were concerns about some artists’ anxiety levels. The Vincents team continues to work with a focus on contact tracing and hygiene to protect its community. Vincents Art Workshop (external link) --- Section Separator --- With the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan Association acted quickly to share awareness and safety information. It initiated regular Facebook Live and Zoom meetings to help its 10,000 community members. These initiatives were expanded to wider communities to work collaboratively in other areas like child and elder welfare. Association members, including doctors, clinical nurses, health workers, emergency specialist nurses, pharmacists and mental health support workers, were able to respond to COVID-19-related enquiries from its members. Volunteers also mobilised in South Auckland, distributing free food parcels and personal protective equipment (PPE) to people in need irrespective of religious affiliation or ethnicity. The Association also helped in situations requiring end-of-life care, funerals, burials and emergencies during lockdown. Pakistan Association of New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Gatluak, originally from South Sudan, is a community advocate at the Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (ARCC). He’s the voice of forced migrant background communities (communities that lived as refugees in other countries and resettled here). In 2020, Gatluak shared COVID-19 information from the Ministry of Health with Sudanese community leaders and families in the US, Norway, France, UK, Denmark, Finland, Canada, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Egypt. He translated and relayed information to combat misinformation in Sudanese communities where accurate information was hard to access. During lockdowns in the Auckland region, he distributed face masks and food parcels to many Auckland communities, and used ARCC video and radio to broadcast messages of health and wellbeing. Find out more about Gatluak’s story (external link) Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (external link) --- Section Separator --- Tam is the President of Lakes District Multicultural Council (LDMC) and founder of the charity Baskets of Blessing.  During the lockdown last year, she initiated a migrant needs assessment survey to find out how to best support migrants. The survey results were shared with other South Island community groups and used to identify needs and gaps in the community. LDMC also delivered grocery and pharmacy vouchers and arranged for medical appointments for those who could not afford them. This summer, Tam’s work is focused on the rollout of various initiatives to support vulnerable groups, including providing COVID-19 information, distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), delivering self-care and wellness kits to those who are isolated or lonely, organising opportunities for connection for migrants and working with other groups to build community resilience. Lakes District Multicultural Council Facebook page (external link) Baskets of Blessing (external link) --- Section Separator --- Hero is the co-ordinator of ‘Toranj’, a fortnightly Plains FM radio programme and podcast in the Farsi language of the Iranian community. During the nationwide lockdown last year, Hero and the Christchurch Iranian Society team translated information and gave daily COVID-19 updates. This was critical at a time when ‘infodemic’ (or ‘fake news’) had become a serious obstacle to getting government-sanctioned science-based pandemic information. The Christchurch Iranian Society set up online classes to provide opportunities for people with limited English to learn new skills and/or pick up a hobby while the country navigated through the different Alert Levels. The programmes included yoga classes, cooking and photography — each given by qualified members of the Iranian community in New Zealand. Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alfie is a Plains FM broadcaster and producer of the Tagalog language programme Kabayan Radio for the Filipino community in Canterbury. His programme is also broadcast on Radio Southland in Invercargill. Over lockdown, Alfie broadcast important COVID-19 messages on Facebook Live from his garage and recorded and sent in another programme for Plains FM to broadcast weekly which included key messages from the Unite against COVID website. Alfie is continuing to broadcast his radio programme, giving advice and assistance to the Filipino community, including reminders on keeping safe from COVID-19. Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- James Roque, an Auckland-based comedian and writer who describes himself as the Filipino stepson of New Zealand comedy, was the face of the Human Rights Commission and the Office of Ethnic Communities’ Racism Is No Joke campaign. James was featured in a series of short videos discussing racist jokes, and why they are not OK. The Racism Is No Joke campaign was launched in July 2020 as a specific response to racism towards Chinese and other Asian people in New Zealand because of COVID-19. Using humour and insights from his own experience as the second generation of a Filipino migrant family, James sought to influence New Zealanders and increase public awareness of racial discrimination and its negative impact on Asian communities living here. James Roque's website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. --- Section Separator --- The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. --- Section Separator --- Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link) --- Section Separator --- Lepou was a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Sadly, Lepou recently passed away but her team is intent on carrying on the good works and service that she brought to her community. Listen to Samoa Feso’ota’i at Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe. --- Section Separator --- The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link)
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Community wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Communities and clubs --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Support your community See your own backyard --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te tāpui i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Ngā wāhi whaipānga Locations of interest Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero me pēhea te tiaki i a koutou ko tō hapori mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te whakatewhatewha pānga me ngā wāhi whaipānga Rapua he kōrero me aha koe i ia Pae Mataara --- Section Separator --- Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Rapua ngā rauemi mō te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Reo Māori
Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei | Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro --- Section Separator --- He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese

Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā wāhi whaipānga | Locations of interest --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā ataata | Videos --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 120 KB] Travel safely Ngā ratonga me ngā tautoko [PDF, 151 KB] Services and support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei [PDF, 75 KB] Access to food or essential items Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 120 KB] Travel safely Ngā ratonga me ngā tautoko [PDF, 151 KB] Services and support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei [PDF, 75 KB] Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere I te Pae Mataara 2, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere I te Pae Mataara 2, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. I te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga ohotata, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Pūnaha Mataara KOWHEORI-19, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. I te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga ohotata, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Pūnaha Mataara KOWHEORI-19, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake, kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai tapu tō miru. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō miru 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o miru kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori haere ki te hokomaha tata ki a koe mahi, ako hoki mai i te kāinga. Ko ētahi kaimahi anake e āhei ana ki te haere ki te mahi, engari he taumaha ngā here i runga i tēnei. mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. whai i ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Whaiwhai KOWHEORI o Aotearoa, mā te puka Whaiwhai KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te whaiwhai pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te KOWHEORI-19 Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whakamātautau Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whaiwhai Hono Iarere Ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te Pae Mataara 4 mēnā he tāpuitanga tōu. E tuwhera tonu ana ngā whare kano ārai mate. Ka mahi tonu rātou i raro i ngā herenga o te Pae Mataara 4. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe kia whiwhi i te kano ārai mate kua oti kē te whakamahere. I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi He whāiti ngā haerenga e āheitia ana i te Pae Mataara 4 i tua atu i ngā take e whakaaetia ana i raro nei. Mēnā e haere ana koe mō tētahi take e whakaaetia ana, kāore e hiahiatia ana tētahi atu momo whakaaetanga ki te hāereere. Engari me mau haere tonu koe i tētahi taunakitanga o tō take hāereere. Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, i tata koe ki tētahi i whakamātauria e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, ko koe rānei i whakamātauria e pāngia ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, kaua e hāereere - ahakoa e whakaaetia ana - ā, me noho taratahi, ka waea atu ki te Healthline mō ētahi tohutohu, ā, kia whakamātauria. Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake, kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai tapu tō miru. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō miru 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o miru kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori haere ki te hokomaha tata ki a koe mahi, ako hoki mai i te kāinga. Ko ētahi kaimahi anake e āhei ana ki te haere ki te mahi, engari he taumaha ngā here i runga i tēnei. mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. whai i ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Whaiwhai KOWHEORI o Aotearoa, mā te puka Whaiwhai KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te whaiwhai pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te KOWHEORI-19 Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whakamātautau Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whaiwhai Hono Iarere Ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te Pae Mataara 4 mēnā he tāpuitanga tōu. E tuwhera tonu ana ngā whare kano ārai mate. Ka mahi tonu rātou i raro i ngā herenga o te Pae Mataara 4. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe kia whiwhi i te kano ārai mate kua oti kē te whakamahere. I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi --- Section Separator --- He whāiti ngā haerenga e āheitia ana i te Pae Mataara 4 i tua atu i ngā take e whakaaetia ana i raro nei. Mēnā e haere ana koe mō tētahi take e whakaaetia ana, kāore e hiahiatia ana tētahi atu momo whakaaetanga ki te hāereere. Engari me mau haere tonu koe i tētahi taunakitanga o tō take hāereere. Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, i tata koe ki tētahi i whakamātauria e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, ko koe rānei i whakamātauria e pāngia ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, kaua e hāereere - ahakoa e whakaaetia ana - ā, me noho taratahi, ka waea atu ki te Healthline mō ētahi tohutohu, ā, kia whakamātauria. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Kia tae ki tō wā, ka taea e koe te tāpui i ō toronga kano ārai mate mā te ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. --- Section Separator --- Kia tae ki tō wā, ka taea e koe te tāpui i ō toronga kano ārai mate mā te ipurangi, mā te waea rānei.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tono mō te werohanga wawe KOWHEORI-19 | Applying for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tāpui i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Booking your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Te tono mō te whiwhinga kano ārai mate wawe mō ngā haerenga ki tāwāhi — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Kua whakaturehia ināianei me whiwhi ngā kaimahi i ngā ripa whenua me ngā whare whakamohoao, whakataratahi hoki (MIQ) i te kano hei ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā mātou e whakaū ō taipitopito whakapā mā ā mātou pūkete me tō kaitukumahi, ka whakapā atu ki a koe mō te tāpuitanga i ō toronga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Me mau hoki ō taipitopito ki te Rēhita Whakamātautau Hungamahi Ripa Whenua (BWTR). Tēnā pātai ki tō kaitukumahi ki te hihira mēnā e tika ana te whakaurunga o tō ingoa me ō taipitopito (tae atu ki tō rā whānau, nama waea me te tau NHI) ki te BWTR. Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ rānei koe, ā, kāore anō kia whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe mō te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ hoki --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Te tono mō te whiwhinga kano ārai mate wawe mō ngā haerenga ki tāwāhi — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Kua whakaturehia ināianei me whiwhi ngā kaimahi i ngā ripa whenua me ngā whare whakamohoao, whakataratahi hoki (MIQ) i te kano hei ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā mātou e whakaū ō taipitopito whakapā mā ā mātou pūkete me tō kaitukumahi, ka whakapā atu ki a koe mō te tāpuitanga i ō toronga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Me mau hoki ō taipitopito ki te Rēhita Whakamātautau Hungamahi Ripa Whenua (BWTR). Tēnā pātai ki tō kaitukumahi ki te hihira mēnā e tika ana te whakaurunga o tō ingoa me ō taipitopito (tae atu ki tō rā whānau, nama waea me te tau NHI) ki te BWTR. Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ rānei koe, ā, kāore anō kia whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe mō te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ hoki --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te werohanga kano ārai mate me tō mahi | Vaccination and your job --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ko wai e āhei ana ki tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? | Who can get a COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Rapua ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate me ngā āhuatanga me whai ina pā ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Rapua ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate me ngā āhuatanga me whai ina pā ki a koe.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: te whanaketanga, whakaaetanga me te haumarutanga | COVID-19 vaccines: development, approval and safety --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Pēhea te mahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | How the COVID-19 vaccine works --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga | How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā pānga kino o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate | Vaccine basics --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 12 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 12 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate | Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel --- Section Separator --- Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tutuki ngā here manene katoa me whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau wehe tōmua tōraro i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i te wehenga mēnā e haere mai ana koe i Ahitereiria. me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. --- Section Separator --- I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tutuki ngā here manene katoa me whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau wehe tōmua tōraro i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i te wehenga mēnā e haere mai ana koe i Ahitereiria. me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog Te reo Māori தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Posters --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 3 and 4 — A4 [PDF, 196 KB] We're cashless — A5 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — A4 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — social [PDF, 114 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A5 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A4 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — DLE [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — social [PDF, 120 KB] Card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 110 KB] Card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 110 KB] Card payment preferred — social [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — social [PDF, 112 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — social [JPG, 306 KB] Sanitise on your way in — A5 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — A4 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] Sanitise on your way in — social [PDF, 114 KB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Record keeping slips [PDF, 394 KB] Record keeping box sticker [PDF, 73 KB] Record keeping box template — small [PDF, 51 KB] Record keeping box template — medium [PDF, 187 KB] Record keeping box template — large [PDF, 165 KB] Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 205 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 393 KB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Please wear a face covering [PDF, 114 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — social [JPG, 306 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you are waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] No standing passengers at Alert Level 2 — full text [PDF, 1.5 MB] No standing passengers at Alert Level 2 — simplified [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please do not sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] This is a healthcare facility: Scan in and wear a mask — A4 [PDF, 129 KB] Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] No standing passengers — stripes [JPG, 394 KB] No standing passengers [JPG, 203 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 3 and 4 — A4 [PDF, 196 KB] We're cashless — A5 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — A4 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — social [PDF, 114 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A5 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A4 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — DLE [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — social [PDF, 120 KB] Card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 110 KB] Card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 110 KB] Card payment preferred — social [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — social [PDF, 112 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — social [JPG, 306 KB] Sanitise on your way in — A5 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — A4 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] Sanitise on your way in — social [PDF, 114 KB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Record keeping slips [PDF, 394 KB] Record keeping box sticker [PDF, 73 KB] Record keeping box template — small [PDF, 51 KB] Record keeping box template — medium [PDF, 187 KB] Record keeping box template — large [PDF, 165 KB] Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 205 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 393 KB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Please wear a face covering [PDF, 114 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — social [JPG, 306 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you are waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] No standing passengers at Alert Level 2 — full text [PDF, 1.5 MB] No standing passengers at Alert Level 2 — simplified [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please do not sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- This is a healthcare facility: Scan in and wear a mask — A4 [PDF, 129 KB] Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] No standing passengers — stripes [JPG, 394 KB] No standing passengers [JPG, 203 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. What travel is permitted with Alert Level 3 and 4, travel across Alert Level boundaries and the Alert Level boundary map. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum brings together experts to discuss the next steps in our reconnection strategy. Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey. --- Section Separator --- Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. What travel is permitted with Alert Level 3 and 4, travel across Alert Level boundaries and the Alert Level boundary map. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum brings together experts to discuss the next steps in our reconnection strategy. Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey.
Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice about how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Advice for walking, cycling and other active travel. What travel is permitted across Alert Level boundaries, and the Alert Level boundary map. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice about how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Advice for walking, cycling and other active travel. What travel is permitted across Alert Level boundaries, and the Alert Level boundary map.
Home Travel Domestic travel Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and flights. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small plane or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle At Alert Level 4, travel is strictly limited. Air travel will be used only to transport: people travelling home in the first 48 hours after the move to Alert Level 4 people undertaking Alert Level 4 services freight, or for other permitted reasons. Other permitted reasons include: to do necessary work as defined in the Public Health Response Order COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order (No 9) 2021 (external link) to pick someone up from an airport to pick someone up from managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) — to pick someone up, you must have a formal letter from MIQ to leave New Zealand to provide urgent care for a child or a person in a critical or terminally ill condition to attend a Court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or another judicial institution. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you needed to get home after the move to Alert Level 4, you must have arrived by now. --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and flights. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small plane or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, travel is strictly limited. Air travel will be used only to transport: people travelling home in the first 48 hours after the move to Alert Level 4 people undertaking Alert Level 4 services freight, or for other permitted reasons. Other permitted reasons include: to do necessary work as defined in the Public Health Response Order COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order (No 9) 2021 (external link) to pick someone up from an airport to pick someone up from managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) — to pick someone up, you must have a formal letter from MIQ to leave New Zealand to provide urgent care for a child or a person in a critical or terminally ill condition to attend a Court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or another judicial institution. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you needed to get home after the move to Alert Level 4, you must have arrived by now. --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Travelling across Alert Level boundaries
Home Travel Domestic travel Private vehicles --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit your vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot work or learn at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you're unwell, stay at home. We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. Practise good hygiene habits. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption. Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Regional travel Using private vehicles for transport is allowed for essential personal movement. You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You should only travel in your car with people from your household bubble. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use a private car to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Regional travel at Alert Level 4 If you needed to get home after the move to Alert Level 4, you must have arrived by now. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport where possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. For information about getting a warrant of fitness (WoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit your vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you're unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot work or learn at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you're unwell, stay at home. We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. Practise good hygiene habits. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption. Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- Using private vehicles for transport is allowed for essential personal movement. You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You should only travel in your car with people from your household bubble. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use a private car to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Regional travel at Alert Level 4 If you needed to get home after the move to Alert Level 4, you must have arrived by now. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport where possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. For information about getting a warrant of fitness (WoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Travelling across Alert Level boundaries
Home Travel Domestic travel Public transport --- Section Separator --- Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings. Passengers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear a face covering at Alert Level 2 and above, but are only encouraged at Alert Level 1. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Face covering exemptions for some people and services However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit public transport. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. We recommend you do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering, and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You should not use public transport if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland If you are healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Apart from the driver only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can take a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand at Alert Level 1 or 2. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Keep a record of your journey. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. We recommend you do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel You can use public transport for essential personal movement. This includes taxis and rideshares. We recommend you do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must keep 1 metre apart from everyone on public transport and at transport stations, where possible. There are some situations where this is not possible, for example in a taxi or ride-share. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in with the NZ COVID Tracer app or keep a record of which service you travel. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use public transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can show you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel If you needed to get home after the move to Alert Level 4, you must have arrived by now. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings. Passengers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear a face covering at Alert Level 2 and above, but are only encouraged at Alert Level 1. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Face covering exemptions for some people and services However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit public transport. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. We recommend you do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering, and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You should not use public transport if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland If you are healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Apart from the driver only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can take a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand at Alert Level 1 or 2. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Keep a record of your journey. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. We recommend you do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- You can use public transport for essential personal movement. This includes taxis and rideshares. We recommend you do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must keep 1 metre apart from everyone on public transport and at transport stations, where possible. There are some situations where this is not possible, for example in a taxi or ride-share. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in with the NZ COVID Tracer app or keep a record of which service you travel. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use public transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can show you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel If you needed to get home after the move to Alert Level 4, you must have arrived by now. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Travelling across Alert Level boundaries
Home Travel Domestic travel Walking, cycling and other active travel --- Section Separator --- Personal walks and other active travel like cycling or scootering are fine, as long as you keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your household bubble. You can use shared bicycles or scooters. Full list of reasons to travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you are unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can walk, cycle or use other active travel like scooters to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. --- Section Separator --- Personal walks and other active travel like cycling or scootering are fine, as long as you keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your household bubble. You can use shared bicycles or scooters. Full list of reasons to travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you are unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can walk, cycle or use other active travel like scooters to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Travelling across Alert Level boundaries
Home Travel Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Signs and posters for travelling safely
Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you have recently arrived in New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you have recently arrived in New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements.
Home Travel International travel and transit Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand When you are vaccinated in New Zealand, you get a purple vaccination card. These cards have basic information about your vaccination appointment, but they may not be recognised as proof of your vaccination by overseas countries. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Make sure you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to and find out what vaccination proof they need. Request proof of vaccination (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Due to the recent community outbreak, quarantine-free travel to Australia and the Cook Islands is paused. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- When you are vaccinated in New Zealand, you get a purple vaccination card. These cards have basic information about your vaccination appointment, but they may not be recognised as proof of your vaccination by overseas countries. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Make sure you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to and find out what vaccination proof they need. Request proof of vaccination (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Due to the recent community outbreak, quarantine-free travel to Australia and the Cook Islands is paused. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel International travel and transit Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- Due to the continuing community outbreak, MIQ is extending the temporary pause on the release and re-release of rooms for a short period of time. Pause of vouchers extended | miq.govt.nz (external link) Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to secure a voucher and complete 14 days in our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facilities. By completing 14 days in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 160,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for MIQ (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in MIQ. The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. If you are on the same floor, and in the vicinity of a confirmed day 0/1 or day 3 case of COVID-19, you will also be tested at day 6 or 7. This is an additional test, introduced from 25 August. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Due to the continuing community outbreak, MIQ is extending the temporary pause on the release and re-release of rooms for a short period of time. Pause of vouchers extended | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to secure a voucher and complete 14 days in our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facilities. By completing 14 days in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 160,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in MIQ. The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. If you are on the same floor, and in the vicinity of a confirmed day 0/1 or day 3 case of COVID-19, you will also be tested at day 6 or 7. This is an additional test, introduced from 25 August. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel International travel and transit Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you have recently arrived in New Zealand and you are 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you are having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You will be invited to do the survey if you have recently arrived in New Zealand and you are 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. --- Section Separator --- The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you are having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] --- Section Separator --- MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel International travel and transit Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Currently, you cannot transit New Zealand on your way to or from Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a non-quarantine-free flight, you must spend 14 days in a managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) facility before you can travel on to Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, for example from the Cook Islands, you still must spend 14 days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey to Australia. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Currently, you cannot transit New Zealand on your way to or from Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a non-quarantine-free flight, you must spend 14 days in a managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) facility before you can travel on to Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, for example from the Cook Islands, you still must spend 14 days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey to Australia. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel restrictions for very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea We added Fiji and Indonesia to this list on 11 August. Travel will be restricted from Fiji and Indonesia from 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 August 2021. Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens, together with any children of those parents who are not New Zealand citizens. Dependent children are children under 18 years old. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must stay airside. This means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. All travellers from Fiji can transit New Zealand to other countries. You must stay airside, which means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. You must spend less than 24 hours in transit in New Zealand. All travellers from very high risk countries (except Fiji) must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) Travellers from Fiji do not need to get pre-departure tests. This is because it is not easy to access tests and there are delays in receiving results. The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) The Government considers the following factors, among others, when deciding to designate a country as very high risk: Whether cases in the country are rising rapidly and the predominant strain, for example the Delta variant. The level of confidence in the country’s testing and other public health measures, such as vaccination coverage rates. The risk to New Zealand's borders. Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and increase the risk of a community outbreak. This is particularly important as countries deal with the Delta variant of COVID-19. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. We added information in Fijian and Indonesian and updated the other languages on 11 August 2021. We added information in Tok Pisin on 12 August. --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea We added Fiji and Indonesia to this list on 11 August. Travel will be restricted from Fiji and Indonesia from 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 August 2021. --- Section Separator --- Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens, together with any children of those parents who are not New Zealand citizens. Dependent children are children under 18 years old. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must stay airside. This means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. All travellers from Fiji can transit New Zealand to other countries. You must stay airside, which means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. You must spend less than 24 hours in transit in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers from very high risk countries (except Fiji) must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) Travellers from Fiji do not need to get pre-departure tests. This is because it is not easy to access tests and there are delays in receiving results. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government considers the following factors, among others, when deciding to designate a country as very high risk: Whether cases in the country are rising rapidly and the predominant strain, for example the Delta variant. The level of confidence in the country’s testing and other public health measures, such as vaccination coverage rates. The risk to New Zealand's borders. --- Section Separator --- Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and increase the risk of a community outbreak. This is particularly important as countries deal with the Delta variant of COVID-19. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- We added information in Fijian and Indonesian and updated the other languages on 11 August 2021. We added information in Tok Pisin on 12 August. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Signs and posters for travelling safely
Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited, and you need to check whether you can travel. Personal movement within Alert Level 3 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. Personal movement at Alert Level 4 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. Personal travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. Business and work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited, and you need to check whether you can travel. Personal movement within Alert Level 3 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. Personal movement at Alert Level 4 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. Personal travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. Business and work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus.
Refinements to this map are in development. This map is in beta, please provide any feedback via this form (external link) (external link) . --- Section Separator --- Personal and business travel across an Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited to essential movement. You may only travel between Alert Level areas if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. You can apply for an exemption if your reason to cross an Alert Level boundary is not permitted. You should stay home, unless it is essential to do otherwise. Personal travel permissions to cross an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions to cross an Alert Level boundary Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland --- Section Separator --- Movement within Alert Level 4 area is limited, except for the permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 area --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Journey Planner also provides updates on the latest traffic information at Alert Level 3 checkpoints. Find out the latest traffic information at the checkpoints (external link)
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Business or work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland The following reasons for business or work travel are permitted. If your business travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. Your employer needs to make sure: they have systems in place to ensure the least number of workers needing to travel do so they minimise the public health risks to anyone travelling as much as possible you have appropriate evidence to travel. You should have evidence to travel across the boundary The Business Travel Document can be used as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. Having one makes crossing the boundary quicker and easier. Get your Business Travel Document (external link) Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable, for example, freight or delivery vehicles could provide delivery dockets. Find examples of evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You should also have a form of photo ID. Every person travelling should carry evidence — you may not be able to cross the boundary if you do not have it. Make sure you have printed copies of your evidence, or electronic copies on your device. You cannot use Business Travel Documents from previous Alert Level lockdowns, for example from February 2021. You must register for new ones. If you travel to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you "take your Alert Level with you". If your reason for travelling is not permitted but you think you have an essential reason to travel for work, you can apply for an exemption. Requests will need to meet criteria. Nominate an authorised person who will apply on behalf of the business. They should understand the business travel operations, like who needs to travel, which boundaries they need to cross and why their travel is essential. Employees cannot register. The authorised person needs to apply for them. Note that exemption applications will not be processed until a Health Order is in place. Apply for an exemption to cross the Alert Level boundary (external link) Travel across the Alert Level boundaries is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. The Government is introducing a requirement for most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries to get tested. From 11:59pm on 9 September 2021, most employers of workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries for work must have a process in place to allow these employees to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing their workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both during their work hours. From 11:59pm on 16 September, most workers crossing the Alert Level boundary must carry: evidence that they have had a COVID-19 test, or a medical certificate verifying they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and, for a particular physical or other need, are unable to have a COVID-19 test. Your employees must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the Alert Level boundary. Workers also must still carry evidence of their reason to cross the Alert Level boundary, for example the Business Travel Document, work order or employer letter. There is no cost for workers who get a test for this purpose. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area (external link) A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the employee. This will be automatically generated at the location where the test was taken, and can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can also be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary The information on this page is about business travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Business or work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland --- Section Separator --- The following reasons for business or work travel are permitted. --- Section Separator --- If your business travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. Your employer needs to make sure: they have systems in place to ensure the least number of workers needing to travel do so they minimise the public health risks to anyone travelling as much as possible you have appropriate evidence to travel. You should have evidence to travel across the boundary The Business Travel Document can be used as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. Having one makes crossing the boundary quicker and easier. Get your Business Travel Document (external link) Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable, for example, freight or delivery vehicles could provide delivery dockets. Find examples of evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You should also have a form of photo ID. Every person travelling should carry evidence — you may not be able to cross the boundary if you do not have it. Make sure you have printed copies of your evidence, or electronic copies on your device. You cannot use Business Travel Documents from previous Alert Level lockdowns, for example from February 2021. You must register for new ones. If you travel to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you "take your Alert Level with you". --- Section Separator --- If your reason for travelling is not permitted but you think you have an essential reason to travel for work, you can apply for an exemption. Requests will need to meet criteria. Nominate an authorised person who will apply on behalf of the business. They should understand the business travel operations, like who needs to travel, which boundaries they need to cross and why their travel is essential. Employees cannot register. The authorised person needs to apply for them. Note that exemption applications will not be processed until a Health Order is in place. Apply for an exemption to cross the Alert Level boundary (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel across the Alert Level boundaries is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. The Government is introducing a requirement for most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries to get tested. From 11:59pm on 9 September 2021, most employers of workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries for work must have a process in place to allow these employees to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing their workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both during their work hours. From 11:59pm on 16 September, most workers crossing the Alert Level boundary must carry: evidence that they have had a COVID-19 test, or a medical certificate verifying they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and, for a particular physical or other need, are unable to have a COVID-19 test. Your employees must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the Alert Level boundary. Workers also must still carry evidence of their reason to cross the Alert Level boundary, for example the Business Travel Document, work order or employer letter. There is no cost for workers who get a test for this purpose. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area (external link) A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the employee. This will be automatically generated at the location where the test was taken, and can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can also be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. --- Section Separator --- If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about business travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is allowed for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for a permitted reason, you do not need any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home, for example proof of address for both households if you are maintaining a shared childcare arrangement. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot show it, you may be prevented from travelling by the travel operator or other authority. You should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice if you: have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 you must stay isolated and follow the advice from health officials. The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements above. There is no need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. It is very difficult to get an exemption. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary: Personal travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is allowed for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for a permitted reason, you do not need any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home, for example proof of address for both households if you are maintaining a shared childcare arrangement. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot show it, you may be prevented from travelling by the travel operator or other authority. You should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice if you: have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 you must stay isolated and follow the advice from health officials. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements above. There is no need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. It is very difficult to get an exemption. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary: Personal travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot provide it, you may be prevented from travelling by the operator or other authority. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 — Ministry of Transport (external link) If you have symptoms of COVID-19, have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19 or test positive for COVID-19, you should not leave home — even if it is permitted — and must self-isolate, and call Healthline for advice and get tested. The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements above. There is no need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. It is very difficult to get an exemption. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 4 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary: Personal travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary --- Section Separator --- If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot provide it, you may be prevented from travelling by the operator or other authority. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 — Ministry of Transport (external link) If you have symptoms of COVID-19, have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19 or test positive for COVID-19, you should not leave home — even if it is permitted — and must self-isolate, and call Healthline for advice and get tested. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements above. There is no need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. It is very difficult to get an exemption. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 4 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3 boundary: Personal travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel over Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. You should make sure you carry acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland The following reasons for personal travel are permitted. If your personal travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. You just need to make sure you have acceptable evidence to travel. Find examples of acceptable evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You must also have a form of photo ID. If you travel to an area at a lower Alert Level, you should make sure you "take your Alert Level with you". You must check if your personal travel across the boundary is permitted. If your reason for personal travel across a boundary is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the restrictions. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you need to apply for an exemption. Before applying for an exemption, you must be sure that: your need to travel across the boundary is urgent and cannot be delayed, and there is no one else (who does not need to cross the boundary) that can attend the event or perform the activity for you. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel across an Alert Level boundary please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for work or business reasons, you or your employer will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary The information on this page is about personal travel permissions when crossing a boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Regional travel at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. You should make sure you carry acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland --- Section Separator --- The following reasons for personal travel are permitted. --- Section Separator --- If your personal travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. You just need to make sure you have acceptable evidence to travel. Find examples of acceptable evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You must also have a form of photo ID. If you travel to an area at a lower Alert Level, you should make sure you "take your Alert Level with you". --- Section Separator --- You must check if your personal travel across the boundary is permitted. If your reason for personal travel across a boundary is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the restrictions. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you need to apply for an exemption. Before applying for an exemption, you must be sure that: your need to travel across the boundary is urgent and cannot be delayed, and there is no one else (who does not need to cross the boundary) that can attend the event or perform the activity for you. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel across an Alert Level boundary please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you want to cross the boundary for work or business reasons, you or your employer will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about personal travel permissions when crossing a boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Regional travel at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. You may be interested in Find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter NZ Exemptions for pre-departure tests Approved types of tests Find testing locations Acceptable pre-departure documentation Information in other languages and alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Most travellers are required to have a negative pre-departure test result and approved documentation to enter New Zealand. All travellers from Australia are now required to get a pre-departure test. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination, you will still need to take a test. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government.  Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. You need to have both your COVID-19 test sample taken and your result returned within 72 hours of the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. Pre-departure tests reduce the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health has confirmed the following types of test are acceptable for all countries — except Australia and very high risk countries: Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT), which includes PCR, RT-PCR and TMA, or LAMP, or antigen test (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Travellers from very high risk countries — Brazil, India, Indonesia, Pakistan and Papua New Guinea — must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. Travellers from Fiji, which is a very high risk country, do not need pre-departure tests. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You are responsible for the costs associated with your test. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. --- Section Separator --- You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests contain the following information for travel clearance: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result --- Section Separator --- Get information about pre-departure testing in other languages and alternate formats.
Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. You can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. You can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in Travelling back to New Zealand after moving to Alert Level 4 Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Cook Islands Paused From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Paused Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. Travel to the Cook Islands is paused The Cook Islands Government has paused travel until 11:59pm on Monday 13 September 2021 (Cook Islands time). This is 9:59pm on Tuesday 14 September 2021 in New Zealand. If you are returning from the Cook Islands, you can travel home on a scheduled flight. You: cannot have been at a New Zealand location of interest, and cannot have COVID-19 symptoms. Please check Cook Islands COVID-19 Response (covid19.gov.ck), the Unite against Covid-19 website and with Air New Zealand for updates on your flight status. All travellers should follow local Cook Islands health guidelines . We also strongly encourage all travellers in the Cook Islands to register on the www.safetravel.govt.nz and monitor the Unite against COVID-19 website for further updates.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands has never had a COVID-19 case and New Zealand has a great record of eliminating the virus. It is everyone’s responsibility to keep it that way. When travelling to the Cook Islands or New Zealand you will need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear, but we do have a plan for how we would handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances and location, it is useful to have a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases when you are travelling on Cook Islands green flights. For example, quarantine-free travel is operating as intended and there is low risk of transmission. Flights to and from the Cook Islands likely to continue. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. Keep a record of your movements — use the local COVID-19 tracer app or keep a paper record. If unwell, do not travel — stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to border. Affected area enters short-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be paused. We may move quickly from pause to suspension in the Cook Islands. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. When returning to the Cook Islands or NZ, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. For example, confirmed case of unknown source. Country enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be suspended for an extended period. Stay where you are, do not travel. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. Your return to NZ or the Cook Islands will be managed to minimise the risk of spread during travel. Travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. Be prepared: Download the CookSafe+ app or NZ COVID Tracer app before departure. There may be connectivity issues in the Cook Islands. Take extra medication, cash and other personal items in case you need to stay longer. Be aware additional costs and getting home are your responsibility. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You are required to complete a travel declaration before departure. You will be required to provide a health declaration and there will be random health checks at airports. Check out eligibility, what to expect and keep an eye on updates on Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and Covid19.gov.ck (external link) How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case [PDF, 97 KB] Ka ‘akape‘ea te teretere‘anga ki te Kūki ‘Airani, me e maki COVID-19 tetai [PDF, 96 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands has never had a COVID-19 case and New Zealand has a great record of eliminating the virus. It is everyone’s responsibility to keep it that way. When travelling to the Cook Islands or New Zealand you will need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear, but we do have a plan for how we would handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances and location, it is useful to have a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases when you are travelling on Cook Islands green flights. --- Section Separator --- For example, quarantine-free travel is operating as intended and there is low risk of transmission. Flights to and from the Cook Islands likely to continue. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. Keep a record of your movements — use the local COVID-19 tracer app or keep a paper record. If unwell, do not travel — stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to border. Affected area enters short-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be paused. We may move quickly from pause to suspension in the Cook Islands. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. When returning to the Cook Islands or NZ, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. --- Section Separator --- For example, confirmed case of unknown source. Country enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be suspended for an extended period. Stay where you are, do not travel. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. Your return to NZ or the Cook Islands will be managed to minimise the risk of spread during travel. Travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test go into managed isolation on arrival. --- Section Separator --- Be prepared: Download the CookSafe+ app or NZ COVID Tracer app before departure. There may be connectivity issues in the Cook Islands. Take extra medication, cash and other personal items in case you need to stay longer. Be aware additional costs and getting home are your responsibility. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You are required to complete a travel declaration before departure. You will be required to provide a health declaration and there will be random health checks at airports. --- Section Separator --- Check out eligibility, what to expect and keep an eye on updates on Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and Covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case [PDF, 97 KB] Ka ‘akape‘ea te teretere‘anga ki te Kūki ‘Airani, me e maki COVID-19 tetai [PDF, 96 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel to the Cook Islands is paused until 11:59pm on Monday 13 September 2021 (Cook Islands time). This is 9:59pm on Tuesday 14 September 2021 in New Zealand. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must some conditions. Travelling back to NZ after moving to Alert Level 4 You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue | health.govt.nz (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel to the Cook Islands is paused until 11:59pm on Monday 13 September 2021 (Cook Islands time). This is 9:59pm on Tuesday 14 September 2021 in New Zealand. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must some conditions. Travelling back to NZ after moving to Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. --- Section Separator --- To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. --- Section Separator --- While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must some conditions. Travelling back to NZ after moving to Alert Level 4 Travel to the Cook Islands is paused until 11:59pm on Monday 13 September 2021 (Cook Islands time). This is 9:59pm on Tuesday 14 September 2021 in New Zealand. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. We encourage you to fly back as soon as possible. Before you travel: make sure you follow all Alert Level 2 health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. You need to contact Te Marae Ora (Cook Islands Ministry of Health) if you arrived in the Cook Islands between 3 August and 16 August (Cook Islands time) and you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been at a location of interest in New Zealand at the stated time. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. Travel is restricted in New Zealand at Alert Level 4. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. Public transport, including domestic flights, are expected to be limited at Alert Level 4. Please plan ahead. You must do the following: Travel home as quickly and directly as possible. Follow all public health requirements while travelling, including wearing face coverings, physical distancing and scanning QR codes. If you need to stay in transit accommodation in Auckland while waiting to return home, follow all Alert Level 4 restrictions. Someone can pick you up at the airport if you are joining their household bubble. They can travel into Auckland to pick you up, as long as they do not travel to any other locations in Auckland. They should carry evidence of why they are travelling Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 (external link) Alert Level 4 in New Zealand You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must some conditions. Travelling back to NZ after moving to Alert Level 4 Travel to the Cook Islands is paused until 11:59pm on Monday 13 September 2021 (Cook Islands time). This is 9:59pm on Tuesday 14 September 2021 in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. We encourage you to fly back as soon as possible. Before you travel: make sure you follow all Alert Level 2 health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. You need to contact Te Marae Ora (Cook Islands Ministry of Health) if you arrived in the Cook Islands between 3 August and 16 August (Cook Islands time) and you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been at a location of interest in New Zealand at the stated time. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. Travel is restricted in New Zealand at Alert Level 4. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. Public transport, including domestic flights, are expected to be limited at Alert Level 4. Please plan ahead. You must do the following: Travel home as quickly and directly as possible. Follow all public health requirements while travelling, including wearing face coverings, physical distancing and scanning QR codes. If you need to stay in transit accommodation in Auckland while waiting to return home, follow all Alert Level 4 restrictions. Someone can pick you up at the airport if you are joining their household bubble. They can travel into Auckland to pick you up, as long as they do not travel to any other locations in Auckland. They should carry evidence of why they are travelling Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 (external link) Alert Level 4 in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Niue --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 4. What to do at Alert Level 4 Travel is restricted in New Zealand at Alert Level 4, however, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. Public transport, including domestic flights, are expected to be limited at Alert Level 4. Please plan ahead. You must do the following: Travel home as quickly and directly as possible. Follow all public health requirements while travelling, including wearing face coverings, physical distancing and scanning QR codes. If you need to stay in transit accommodation in Auckland while waiting to return home, follow all Alert Level 4 restrictions. Someone can pick you up at the airport if you are joining their household bubble. They can travel into Auckland to pick you up, as long as they do not travel to any other locations in Auckland. They should carry evidence of why they are travelling Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 (external link) You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is also available from the Cook Islands and Australia to New Zealand. However, this does not mean there is a "travel bubble" between New Zealand, Niue, Australia and the Cook Islands. If you want to travel from Niue to the Cook Islands by transiting through New Zealand, you will have to stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can travel onwards to the Cook Islands, and you have to be eligible to travel there. You could travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you’re in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 4. What to do at Alert Level 4 Travel is restricted in New Zealand at Alert Level 4, however, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. Public transport, including domestic flights, are expected to be limited at Alert Level 4. Please plan ahead. You must do the following: Travel home as quickly and directly as possible. Follow all public health requirements while travelling, including wearing face coverings, physical distancing and scanning QR codes. If you need to stay in transit accommodation in Auckland while waiting to return home, follow all Alert Level 4 restrictions. Someone can pick you up at the airport if you are joining their household bubble. They can travel into Auckland to pick you up, as long as they do not travel to any other locations in Auckland. They should carry evidence of why they are travelling Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is also available from the Cook Islands and Australia to New Zealand. However, this does not mean there is a "travel bubble" between New Zealand, Niue, Australia and the Cook Islands. If you want to travel from Niue to the Cook Islands by transiting through New Zealand, you will have to stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can travel onwards to the Cook Islands, and you have to be eligible to travel there. You could travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand while quarantine-free travel is suspended. --- Section Separator --- Sign up if you would like email notifications about travel with Australia. Sign up now (external link) --- Section Separator --- 8 September 2021: One flight will depart from Sydney on Wednesday 15 September  — but only for people who qualify for an emergency allocation of an MIQ voucher. You can apply for an emergency allocation up until 5pm (NZT) / 3pm (AEST) on Saturday 11 September. Check now to see if you qualify. MIQ emergency allocations | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is for everyone in Australia who wants to travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- One flight from Sydney to Auckland on Wednesday 15 September is scheduled for people who are eligible for an emergency allocation of an MIQ voucher. Travellers need to: have the right to enter New Zealand complete a 14-day stay in managed isolation — the normal rules around paying for your stay in MIQ will apply. provide a negative pre-departure test, and not have visited a location of interest in the past 14 days. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand You can apply for an emergency allocation up until 5pm (NZT) / 3pm (AEST) on Saturday 11 September. Check now to see if you qualify. When you are applying: your flight is 15/9 your flight details are "Air NZ" MIQ emergency allocations | miq.govt.nz (external link) This flight is not available for public booking, so please do not contact airlines about it. --- Section Separator --- If you are in Australia and were not able to return home before 30 July, we encourage you to: Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia if the situation changes (external link) (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand and at our Consular offices in Australia cannot arrange a space in managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Australia is suspended. Travel is suspended due to COVID-19 cases in the community in New Zealand. If you want to travel to Australia during this time, you will need to enter 14 days of “supervised hotel quarantine”. This is similar to New Zealand's MIQ. You may have to pay for your stay. Your options for travel from New Zealand may be limited as airlines reduce the number of flights available. We recommend you contact your airline to confirm your booking. The New Zealand Government has upgraded its travel advice for everyone in New Zealand to “do not travel to Australia”, unless you usually live in Australia and you are returning home. If you need to travel to Australia, check the requirements you must meet with the Australian Government. If you want to return to New Zealand, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand and you will have to book a space in MIQ. Currently, there are no spaces in MIQ available. New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link)
Reconnection affects us all and everyone has a stake. The forum brings together experts to discuss the next steps in the reconnection strategy. --- Section Separator --- Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern speech — Te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Our approach is guided by five objectives: Maintaining our elimination strategy to stamp out the virus and keep our options open. Ensuring every eligible New Zealander is offered the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Reducing the need for further lockdowns as much as possible by continuing to strengthen our health and contact tracing systems. Maintaining strong public health tools. Developing new ways to enable people to travel safely to and from New Zealand. Read more about the next steps [PDF, 122 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government has announced it will undertake a self-isolation pilot for a limited number of travellers between October and December 2021. More information will be released in September. Subscribe for updates on the self-isolation pilot (external link) --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health.