Report your RAT result, and follow the isolation rules for you and your Household Contacts. What you need to know Household Contacts When to wear a face mask Get a COVID-19 test Preparing to travel to NZ After you have had COVID-19 Latest case numbers Get a booster Posters Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. --- Section Separator --- Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework sets out rules for different traffic light settings. The framework aims to manage life with Omicron and reduce the impact of outbreaks. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework sets out rules for different traffic light settings. The framework aims to manage life with Omicron and reduce the impact of outbreaks.
Home About our COVID-19 response About Unite against COVID-19 Unite against COVID-19 has evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. It is evolving to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey based on the concept of "He waka eke noa — we are all in this together." --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. --- Section Separator --- Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Over the past year we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so that we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our new sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our elements. --- Section Separator --- Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū. The taonga pūoro you now hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand's sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. --- Section Separator --- Our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped us shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but, together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail.
Home About our COVID-19 response History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 210 KB] First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. --- Section Separator --- Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 210 KB] --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19 History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet set up the Community Panel. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet set up the Community Panel.
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- The group provides advice to the Minister for COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. This can include: considering COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, such as border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response giving an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response. The aim is to give the Minister assurance that learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Sir Brian Roche, Chair Dr Dale Bramley Dr Debbie Ryan Prof Phillip Hill Rob Fyfe Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- The group provides advice to the Minister for COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. This can include: considering COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, such as border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response giving an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response. The aim is to give the Minister assurance that learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- Sir Brian Roche, Chair Dr Dale Bramley Dr Debbie Ryan Prof Phillip Hill Rob Fyfe --- Section Separator --- Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases --- Section Separator --- The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. --- Section Separator --- Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups Community Panel --- Section Separator --- The panel provides insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. Panel members bring lived experiences and deep community ties to: provide diverse perspectives on the COVID-19 response help make sure issues such as equity are addressed. They represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, LGBTQ+, Māori, Pacific and other ethnic groups. Their expertise helps shape the medium- and long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen in consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Sarah Sparks, Chair Anthony Taueki Dr Api Talemaitoga Dr Aram Kim Callum Woodhouse Dr Hafsa Ahmed Jordon Milroy Dr Margaret Brown Michelle Mascoll When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. --- Section Separator --- The panel provides insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. Panel members bring lived experiences and deep community ties to: provide diverse perspectives on the COVID-19 response help make sure issues such as equity are addressed. They represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, LGBTQ+, Māori, Pacific and other ethnic groups. Their expertise helps shape the medium- and long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen in consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- Sarah Sparks, Chair Anthony Taueki Dr Api Talemaitoga Dr Aram Kim Callum Woodhouse Dr Hafsa Ahmed Jordon Milroy Dr Margaret Brown Michelle Mascoll --- Section Separator --- When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The group provides independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Sir David Skegg, Chair Prof David Murdoch Dr Ella Iosua Dr Maia Brewerton Associate Prof Nikki Turner Prof Philip Hill Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Prof Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- The group provides independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- Sir David Skegg, Chair Prof David Murdoch Dr Ella Iosua Dr Maia Brewerton Associate Prof Nikki Turner Prof Philip Hill Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Prof Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. --- Section Separator --- Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] — updated May 2022 The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2021 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] — updated May 2022 --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2021 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19 History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department for the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health Border Executive Board --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework --- Section Separator --- Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand legislation website | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand legislation website | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Border --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Education --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Health response --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Housing --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Income support measures --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Independent advisory groups --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Offshore issues --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Research --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Reviews and audits --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] Reports tracking the progress made on recommendations to improve New Zealand’s COVID-19 response system. See progress reports --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] --- Section Separator --- Reports tracking the progress made on recommendations to improve New Zealand’s COVID-19 response system. See progress reports --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Economy --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Contact us | business.govt.nz We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. This website is operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: administer, evaluate, improve, and secure our ICT systems, our website, and the information our website contains (ICT and website purposes) improve our services action or respond to the information provided and communicate with you (this may include sharing the information with other government organisations to enable a response or action), and where such disclosure is required or permitted by law. We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information, or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about personal information that we hold, please write to: The Privacy Officer Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington or send an email to information@dpmc.govt.nz We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. This website is operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: administer, evaluate, improve, and secure our ICT systems, our website, and the information our website contains (ICT and website purposes) improve our services action or respond to the information provided and communicate with you (this may include sharing the information with other government organisations to enable a response or action), and where such disclosure is required or permitted by law. We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information, or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about personal information that we hold, please write to: The Privacy Officer Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington or send an email to information@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. You might be interested in Get a booster International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Boosters and Omicron — Your questions answered Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The AstraZeneca and Novavax COVID-19 vaccines are also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The AstraZeneca and Novavax COVID-19 vaccines are also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunising tamariki Dr Pete Watson — How immunising tamariki helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. It is recommended the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Dr Lily Fraser — effects of COVID-19 on tamariki Dr Jin Russell — How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5 to 11 | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Dr Teuila Percival — Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Why do I need a booster? Can I get Novavax? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does the vaccine work against Omicron? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on Omicron and boosters 4 reasons to get tamariki vaccinated against COVID-19 NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- What to expect if you have a needle phobia How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. It is a viral vector vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 4 weeks or more. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS — a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). COVID-19 vaccines: Getting AstraZeneca | Ministry of Health (external link) The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. It is a viral vector vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 4 weeks or more. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS — a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). COVID-19 vaccines: Getting AstraZeneca | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine advice for disabled people This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster now. Young people aged 16 and 17 can get a free Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Using My Vaccine Pass is no longer a legal requirement, but some businesses, events and venues may choose to still use it. This means you may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter some places. You can still receive essential care even if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Your care and support workers must continue to be fully vaccinated and boosted. This is so they can keep you safe, and reduce the risk of passing COVID-19 to you. All health workers also need to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Find out more about the changes to My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.5 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, traffic light settings, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face masks to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? --- Section Separator --- Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? --- Section Separator --- Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. --- Section Separator --- The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face mask in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly. Watch episode 8 (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Boosters Child vaccinations Vaccine side effects If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Vaccine advice for disabled people --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children under 5 cannot get vaccinated for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. For most people, the primary course is 2 doses. You can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after completing your primary course. You can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca booster 3 months after completing your primary course, or a Novavax booster 6 months after completing your primary course. It is recommended you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Book your booster --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26
Home COVID-19 vaccines Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector workers are required to be vaccinated, because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order)  describes who in the health and disability sector is covered by the Vaccinations Order. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the Vaccinations Order. This means workers in these sectors must get a booster within 6 months (183 days) of completing their primary vaccination course. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson). The primary course of vaccination means 2 doses for all the recognised vaccines except Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. You may be able to get a temporary exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Exemptions from COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry of Health (external link) If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | New Zealand Legislation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector workers are required to be vaccinated, because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order)  describes who in the health and disability sector is covered by the Vaccinations Order. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the Vaccinations Order. This means workers in these sectors must get a booster within 6 months (183 days) of completing their primary vaccination course. --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson). The primary course of vaccination means 2 doses for all the recognised vaccines except Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. --- Section Separator --- You may be able to get a temporary exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Exemptions from COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | New Zealand Legislation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, and your COVID-19 vaccination record. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, and your COVID-19 vaccination record. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. You can use My Covid Record to: get proof of your vaccination status see the results of any PCR tests taken in the last 90 days report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result for you or someone else. You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccination recording including batch numbers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. --- Section Separator --- You can use My Covid Record to: get proof of your vaccination status see the results of any PCR tests taken in the last 90 days report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result for you or someone else. --- Section Separator --- You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccination recording including batch numbers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Proof of your vaccination status --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — you can use this as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet on your phone. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — you can use this as proof for travel overseas. Your COVID-19 vaccination record — this has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations, and can be used as proof for work and alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. An updated My Vaccine Pass is available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 by visiting a participating vaccination site. You can get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. You can request a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination record online through My Covid Record. Your vaccination record includes: batch numbers dose number vaccine type any overseas vaccinations you have requested be added to your health record. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer – including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, International Travel Vaccination Certificate or record of your COVID-19 vaccinations. online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 , option 4 (8am to 8pm, 7 days) in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get My Vaccine Passes for a group 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3.The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1.Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — you can use this as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet on your phone. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — you can use this as proof for travel overseas. Your COVID-19 vaccination record — this has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations, and can be used as proof for work and alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. An updated My Vaccine Pass is available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 by visiting a participating vaccination site. You can get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: --- Section Separator --- Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- You can request a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination record online through My Covid Record. Your vaccination record includes: batch numbers dose number vaccine type any overseas vaccinations you have requested be added to your health record. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer – including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, International Travel Vaccination Certificate or record of your COVID-19 vaccinations. online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 , option 4 (8am to 8pm, 7 days) in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get My Vaccine Passes for a group 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3.The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1.Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Check the vaccination requirements Complete the traveller declaration Testing after arriving in New Zealand Download your proof of vaccination for travel If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Find out if you are eligible to travel to New Zealand and what you need to do to enter New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Information for travellers transiting through New Zealand.
Home International travel Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Our border reopened to vaccinated New Zealanders from Australia at 11.59pm 27 February 2022. We reopened to New Zealanders in the rest of the world on 4 March 2022. We have removed MIQ for most travellers, replaced by self-testing after they arrive. MIQ is now only used in limited circumstances — for example, maritime and international air crew. Five-step plan prioritises returning New Zealanders and brings forward the reopening of key visa categories to address worker shortages. Further visa categories reopen throughout the year to help accelerate economic recovery. When New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- Maintaining our minimisation and protection strategy to stamp out the virus and keep our options open. Ensuring every eligible New Zealander is offered the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Reducing the need for further lockdowns as much as possible by continuing to strengthen our health and contact tracing systems. Maintaining strong public health tools. Developing new ways to enable people to travel safely to and from New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours.  The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 260 KB] Sign in to My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone travelling to New Zealand by air must complete a New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD) prior to check-in at the airport. The information collected, which includes COVID-19 vaccination status and test results, is used to let travellers know what they need to do when they arrive in New Zealand: such as self-test on arrival or enter quarantine-free. Travellers need to complete an NZTD and be issued with a Traveller Pass to board their flight to New Zealand, and must show their pass on arrival in New Zealand. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the NZTD needs mean that it is being developed in stages. The first version came into effect in March 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service is administering this project. --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Panel experts included Sir David Skegg, Sir Brian Roche, Dr Maia Brewerton, Dr Api Talemaitoga, Mr Rob Fyfe, Professor Michael Baker, and Dr Ashley Bloomfield. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021.
Home International travel Travel from New Zealand Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. --- Section Separator --- Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. You may not be allowed to travel if you: have COVID-19 symptoms do not meet any vaccination requirements do not meet the health requirements of your destination. Before you travel, check the travel advice for your destination and any transit locations to learn about their entry and exit requirements. If you are unsure, contact your airline, travel agent or the relevant government department in the country you are visiting. --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel (QFT). Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Niue's borders are now open. All travellers must: be vaccinated have proof of travel insurance take a PCR test 48 hours before their flight to Niue complete the Niue Traveller Declaration. If you are visiting Niue, you must book your accommodation in advance for the duration of your stay. If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19, you may have to isolate and stay longer than planned. Make sure you have a plan for this. Entry requirements for Niue | Government of Niue (external link) Complete the Niue Traveller Declaration (external link) SafeTravel advice for Niue | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. --- Section Separator --- You do not need proof of a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Most travellers need to be vaccinated and take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after arriving in New Zealand. If you transit through New Zealand, you no longer need to be vaccinated or complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Find out what you need to do enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Over 2022, New Zealand's borders are reopening to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Use our step-by-step guide to help you plan your travel and get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand. Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand. Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. If you have recently arrived in New Zealand and test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Preparing to travel to New Zealand A step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand and meet COVID-19 requirements. --- Section Separator --- You do not need proof of a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Most travellers need to be vaccinated and take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after arriving in New Zealand. If you transit through New Zealand, you do not need to be vaccinated or complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You must take 2 RATs after you arrive if you are: travelling to New Zealand for a holiday or for work a New Zealand citizen or resident returning home. You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them at the airport. You can find more information about the testing requirements on the COVID-19 Health Hub. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) You do not need to take another test, but you should check any pre-departure testing requirements of the country you are travelling to. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the Ministry of Health with instructions on how to report your result. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call the COVID-19 Test Results line on: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM You may have to pay for your call if you are using an international SIM — check with your phone provider. If you return a positive RAT result, or the result is invalid you must self-isolate at the place you are staying while you are in New Zealand. You must also get a PCR test to confirm your result. If your PCR is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If your PCR is negative, you do not need to continue to isolate. This is because a PCR result is more accurate than a RAT result. Isolation means staying in your home or holiday accommodation. Do not go to shops or any other public places. Follow the self-isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. If you have travelled to New Zealand by air, the people travelling with you will also need to isolate. If you are a visitor to New Zealand, you may need to pay for any extra accommodation costs. We strongly encourage everyone travelling to New Zealand to get comprehensive travel insurance which includes COVID-19 cover. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) You must get a PCR test from a community testing centre or healthcare provider if your RAT: is positive fails to show a result result is invalid. If you have reported your positive RAT, you will receive an email with a form for a PCR test. You can print the form or show it on your mobile device when you go to the community centre or healthcare provider. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. PCR tests if you have recently arrived in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, follow the advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. You must: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this pay for any healthcare costs. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) Advice if you have COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19 while in New Zealand, you will not be able to return home or travel onwards until you have completed your 7 days of isolation. You should also check with your airline about any regulations they may have. --- Section Separator --- You must take 2 RATs after you arrive if you are: travelling to New Zealand for a holiday or for work a New Zealand citizen or resident returning home. You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them at the airport. You can find more information about the testing requirements on the COVID-19 Health Hub. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) You do not need to take another test, but you should check any pre-departure testing requirements of the country you are travelling to. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the Ministry of Health with instructions on how to report your result. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call the COVID-19 Test Results line on: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM You may have to pay for your call if you are using an international SIM — check with your phone provider. --- Section Separator --- If you return a positive RAT result, or the result is invalid you must self-isolate at the place you are staying while you are in New Zealand. You must also get a PCR test to confirm your result. If your PCR is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If your PCR is negative, you do not need to continue to isolate. This is because a PCR result is more accurate than a RAT result. Isolation means staying in your home or holiday accommodation. Do not go to shops or any other public places. Follow the self-isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. If you have travelled to New Zealand by air, the people travelling with you will also need to isolate. If you are a visitor to New Zealand, you may need to pay for any extra accommodation costs. We strongly encourage everyone travelling to New Zealand to get comprehensive travel insurance which includes COVID-19 cover. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) You must get a PCR test from a community testing centre or healthcare provider if your RAT: is positive fails to show a result result is invalid. If you have reported your positive RAT, you will receive an email with a form for a PCR test. You can print the form or show it on your mobile device when you go to the community centre or healthcare provider. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. PCR tests if you have recently arrived in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, follow the advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. You must: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this pay for any healthcare costs. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) Advice if you have COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19 while in New Zealand, you will not be able to return home or travel onwards until you have completed your 7 days of isolation. You should also check with your airline about any regulations they may have. --- Section Separator --- When New Zealand's borders open Preparing to travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- When New Zealand's borders open Preparing to travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- Applications for work visas including the Accredited Employer Work Visa are now open. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. Apply for an Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival: vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return up to 5,000 international students, for semester 2 vaccinated travellers with a border exception vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) vaccinated travellers from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category vaccinated travellers applying for a work visa in New Zealand. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | Immigration NZ (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | Immigration NZ (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) Check if you need to apply for a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) before you travel. Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) Visitor visa applications are now open for some Pacific Island countries. You can apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island Forum countries is on Immigration NZ's website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | Immigration NZ (external link) From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including tourist, visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. Cruise ships can also enter New Zealand from 31 July 2022, with the re-opening of the maritime border to foreign-flagged vessels. To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. You must be vaccinated. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand You must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on arrival. After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving --- Section Separator --- Applications for work visas including the Accredited Employer Work Visa are now open. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. Apply for an Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival: vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return up to 5,000 international students, for semester 2 vaccinated travellers with a border exception vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) vaccinated travellers from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category vaccinated travellers applying for a work visa in New Zealand. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | Immigration NZ (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | Immigration NZ (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) Check if you need to apply for a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) before you travel. Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) Visitor visa applications are now open for some Pacific Island countries. You can apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island Forum countries is on Immigration NZ's website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including tourist, visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. Cruise ships can also enter New Zealand from 31 July 2022, with the re-opening of the maritime border to foreign-flagged vessels. --- Section Separator --- To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. You must be vaccinated. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand You must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on arrival. After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving --- Section Separator --- When New Zealand's borders open Preparing to travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home Isolation and care There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know Financial support Looking after your mental wellbeing If you get COVID-19 while travelling If you test positive while visiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID. --- Section Separator --- What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID.
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
Home Isolation and care Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 PCR test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | Work and Income (external link) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | Work and Income (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: apply for benefits or other financial support ask them to help you find another job. You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | Work and Income (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | Ministry of Social Development (MSD) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Isolation and care Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for at least 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. What you need to know Help when you are self-isolating When to end self-isolation Advice for Household Contacts If you are a visitor to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must to isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Proof of isolation for employees and employers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts will also need to isolate for 7 days, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | health.govt.nz (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever came first. --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | Healthpoint (external link) COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country --- Section Separator --- You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | Healthpoint (external link) COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Languages and resources Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. --- Section Separator --- Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Download our posters and resources for your home and business. --- Section Separator --- Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Download our posters and resources for your home and business.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: are blind, vision-impaired or have low vision cannot keep their eyes on the screen because they are doing something — for example, cooking want help keeping track of details in the story. Find out more about audio description (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Testing and tracing (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description)
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description)
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description)
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] About COVID-19 testing [BRF, 4 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [BRF, 4 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Support (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Contact tracing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Testing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Travel (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio: Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 1.7 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 1.7 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] --- Section Separator --- Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [MP3, 1.4 MB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [MP3, 1.4 MB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Support (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 542 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 541 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] About COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.7 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.4 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.1 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 542 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 541 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] About COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.7 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.4 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.1 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [DOCX, 540 KB] Life at Red [DOCX, 546 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Life at Green [MP3, 1.4 MB] Life at Red [MP3, 5 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [DOCX, 540 KB] Life at Red [DOCX, 546 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Life at Green [MP3, 1.4 MB] Life at Red [MP3, 5 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Travel (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 2.5 MB] Travel within New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travel within New Zealand [MP3, 8.9 MB] Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travel within New Zealand [MP3, 8.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) New face mask exemption process (external link) Updated My Vaccine Passes (external link) Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand and how to get vaccinated Find out how to get proof of vaccination for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas Find out about vaccinating your child against COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand and how to get vaccinated Find out how to get proof of vaccination for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas Find out about vaccinating your child against COVID-19
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Proving you are vaccinated (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Vaccinations for children (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Isolation and care (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 symptoms and variants of the virus Find out when you need to wear a face mask Find out how your household can prepare for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 symptoms and variants of the virus Find out when you need to wear a face mask Find out how your household can prepare for COVID-19
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Face masks (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Information about COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Preparing for COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Find out how contact tracing works, and about the NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Find out how contact tracing works, and about the NZ COVID Tracer app
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Contact tracing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Testing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Travel (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Posters Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face mask — A4 [PDF, 1.5 MB] You must wear a face mask here — A4 [PDF, 85 KB] We encourage you to wear a face mask — A4 [PDF, 86 KB] How to wear a face mask safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face mask [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 176 KB] Kia ora — we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? [PNG, 907 KB] How to work out your days of self-isolation [PNG, 926 KB] Household Contacts — what you need to do [PNG, 903 KB] Testing positive at different times [PNG, 1 MB] Do you need a test to leave isolation? [PNG, 857 KB] Got any symptoms? [JPG, 489 KB] Test results [JPG, 527 KB] How to self-isolate [JPG, 605 KB] Need support? [JPG, 501 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [JPG, 539 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 167 KB] --- Section Separator --- Download a printable table of the traffic light settings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- There is no requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can choose to check My Vaccine Pass if they would like to. If your business chooses to, you could display a poster to let people know: Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] Find out more about My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te haere ki Aotearoa Travelling to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga | Help while you are isolating --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: kawenga o ngā kai ki a koe moni hei utu i ngā kōhukihuki, waiwai hoki, pēnei i te kai, te rongoā me ētahi pire. tautoko mai i ngā rōpū hapori, ngā rōpū ā-iwi me ngā rōpū o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa kei tō rohe. Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: tiro kei te pēhea koe tiro mēnā e hiahia ana koe i ētahi whakaratonga pēnei i te kai, te rongoā rānei. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Tērā hoki he tautoko ā-pūtea mā te hunga e tika ana kia noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Tautoko ā-pūtea Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: kawenga o ngā kai ki a koe moni hei utu i ngā kōhukihuki, waiwai hoki, pēnei i te kai, te rongoā me ētahi pire. tautoko mai i ngā rōpū hapori, ngā rōpū ā-iwi me ngā rōpū o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa kei tō rohe. Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: tiro kei te pēhea koe tiro mēnā e hiahia ana koe i ētahi whakaratonga pēnei i te kai, te rongoā rānei. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Tērā hoki he tautoko ā-pūtea mā te hunga e tika ana kia noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Tautoko ā-pūtea Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te noho taratahi i te kāinga | Isolating at home --- Section Separator --- Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga koe mēnā: kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 (tangata whaipānga tata i te kāinga). Ka taea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho tōtika rānei. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 7 rā i te iti rawa i a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Me tīmata ki te kaute i ngā rā e 7 mai i te rā kore (0). Ko te rā 0 koinā te rā i pā mai ai ō tohumate, i kitea rānei kei te pāngia koe e te mate (mēnā kāore ō tohumate). Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te katoa o te wā i whakaritea kia noho koe ki reira, hāunga mō ētahi pūtake whāiti kia wehe koe. Ā, me tūpato koe kia kore ai e pātata ki te hunga e noho tahi ai koe. Ngā tohutohu mō te noho taratahi: Me noho ki te kāinga, i tō wāhi noho rānei, kaua tētahi atu ki roto i tō rūma, ā, mēnā ka taea me whiwhi i tōu ake rūma kaukau. Me korikori tinana i te kāinga, i tō māra rānei mēnā ka taea, i waho rānei i tō takiwā noho kia tawhiti mai i ētahi atu. Kāore koe e āhei ana ki te korikori tinana i ngā whakanōhanga mō te katoa, pērā i tētahi hōpua kaukau. Kia iti te whaipānga ki ētahi atu e noho tahi ai koe. Mēnā kāore e taea, me 1.5 mita tō noho wehe, ā, me mau ārai kanohi kia kapi ai tō ihu me tō waha ina tata mai ētahi atu. Kaua tuari mea me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kaua e tukuna he manuhiri ki roto i tō kāinga. Me horoi, me patuero haere ngā papa e tino pāpātia ana. Huakina ngā matapihi kia nui ake te rere o te hau i roto. Me tono ngā hoa, te whānau rānei ki te waiho i ngā kai, ngā ōta rongoā, ngā mea waiwai ki tō kūaha, me tono kia kawea mai rānei ngā kawenga. Mēnā kāore i te haumaru mōu kia noho taratahi i te kāinga, ka taea pea he wāhi noho atu anō mōu. Ka taea e koe tēnei te tono mā te puka tuihono. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me wawe tonu tō noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia ia e te mate (i te rā rānei i pā mai ngā tohumate, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei). Me noho koe ki te kāinga i a koe e noho taratahi ana, engari ehara i te mea me karo koe i ētahi atu o tō whare engari ia mēnā pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia ina eke te tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe ki te rā 3 me te rā 7 o tōna mate. Ka āhei koe ki te whakamutu i tō noho taratahi i te rā tonu ka mutu te tangata tuatahi i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā ka whakaatu tō whakamātautau kāore koe i te mate i te rā 7, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino ake rānei. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia anō tētahi o tō kāinga e te mate, ka āhei tonu ērā atu o te whare te whakamutu tā rātau noho taratahi ina mutu taua tangata tuatahi, engari me kore katoa ōna tohumate, kua kitea rānei kua kore kē e pāngia e te mate. Engari, ki te pāngia ētahi o te kāinga e te mate, me tīmata anō tā rātau noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe engari kāore koe i te noho tahi me te tangata kua pāngia e te mate, kāore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate, me mātua whakaritea he whakamātautau. I te mea he mea nui ngā ratonga hira mō ngā hiahia taketake o te tangata, he whakarato hanganga hira, he wāhanga hoki/rānei o ngā mekameka ratonga hira, ka taea e ā rātau kaimahi te toro i te Kaupapa Aweretanga Mō te Tāngata Whaipānga Tata. Ko ngā kaimahi kua werohia, kāore i te mate, kei ngā ratonga hira rēhita he whaipānga tata i te kāinga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 ka taea tonu te mahi, engari ia me whakaatu tō rātau whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kāore rātau i te mate i mua i te tīmatanga o te rā, wāhanga mahi rānei kei te mahi rātau i te wā noho taratahi, me te whai i ngā tikanga hauora tauwhāiti. Ka āhei anake rātau ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Ka taea e ēnei kaimahi te tiki ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mai i te wāhi hei tiki atu. Te whakamātautau me te hoki ki te mahi i te wā Omikona | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei tētahi pakihi, kaihokohoko takitahi rānei ki tētahi kaimahi he tangata whaipānga tata kei te wāhi mahi mēnā kāore ia i te pā ki ngā manuhiri, ā, me te noho ki te 'Rāhui Takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (me te haere atu me te hoki atu i te mahi). Me mātua whiwhi wero kano ārai mate te kaimahi, kāore ōna tohumate, ā, ka taea tonu te ū ki te 'rāhui takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (ahakoa kei roto, kei waho rānei). Ka āhei anake ia ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Rāhui Takitahi | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei ngā ratonga manaaki waiwai, pērā i ngā mahi o te wharepaku, te horoi me te kai, ki te haere tonu. Mēnā ka kitea he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga ki tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, me mātua whakamahi ngā kaitiaki i ngā tikanga horoi pai me te noho wehe i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea. Mēnā kaore e taea tēnei, me mātua mau utauta whakamaru tangata pērā i ngā karapu maka noa me ngā ārai kanohi. Ngā kōrero mā ngā kaimahi tautoko (external link) Mēnā ka pā mai ki a koe, ki tētahi atu rānei e tiakina ana e koe ngā tohumate kino me wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko ngā tohumate kino pea: he uaua te hēhē he takarangi, ka warea e te moe, he uaua rānei te oho ake kua kikorangi haere te waha, he kōmā me te makariri rānei he tino mamae te uma. Mēnā he kino ake tō mate, ā, me uru ki te hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i tō hoki ki te kāinga me te whai anō i ō mahi noa. Ka tirotirohia tēnei e ai ki te āhuatanga e tētahi mātanga hauora. Kāore he utu hauora mō te KOWHEORI-19. He maha ngā tāngata ka taea e rātau te noho taratahi i te kāinga me ngā āwhina mai i ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he āwhina kei reira mēnā kei te hiahia koe. Ngā tautoko mā ngā āwhina me ngā tāngata takitahi Ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi | business.govt.nz (external link) He tautoko atu anō mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei te noho taratahi rānei --- Section Separator --- Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga koe mēnā: kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 (tangata whaipānga tata i te kāinga). Ka taea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho tōtika rānei. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 7 rā i te iti rawa i a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Me tīmata ki te kaute i ngā rā e 7 mai i te rā kore (0). Ko te rā 0 koinā te rā i pā mai ai ō tohumate, i kitea rānei kei te pāngia koe e te mate (mēnā kāore ō tohumate). Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te katoa o te wā i whakaritea kia noho koe ki reira, hāunga mō ētahi pūtake whāiti kia wehe koe. Ā, me tūpato koe kia kore ai e pātata ki te hunga e noho tahi ai koe. Ngā tohutohu mō te noho taratahi: Me noho ki te kāinga, i tō wāhi noho rānei, kaua tētahi atu ki roto i tō rūma, ā, mēnā ka taea me whiwhi i tōu ake rūma kaukau. Me korikori tinana i te kāinga, i tō māra rānei mēnā ka taea, i waho rānei i tō takiwā noho kia tawhiti mai i ētahi atu. Kāore koe e āhei ana ki te korikori tinana i ngā whakanōhanga mō te katoa, pērā i tētahi hōpua kaukau. Kia iti te whaipānga ki ētahi atu e noho tahi ai koe. Mēnā kāore e taea, me 1.5 mita tō noho wehe, ā, me mau ārai kanohi kia kapi ai tō ihu me tō waha ina tata mai ētahi atu. Kaua tuari mea me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kaua e tukuna he manuhiri ki roto i tō kāinga. Me horoi, me patuero haere ngā papa e tino pāpātia ana. Huakina ngā matapihi kia nui ake te rere o te hau i roto. Me tono ngā hoa, te whānau rānei ki te waiho i ngā kai, ngā ōta rongoā, ngā mea waiwai ki tō kūaha, me tono kia kawea mai rānei ngā kawenga. Mēnā kāore i te haumaru mōu kia noho taratahi i te kāinga, ka taea pea he wāhi noho atu anō mōu. Ka taea e koe tēnei te tono mā te puka tuihono. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me wawe tonu tō noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia ia e te mate (i te rā rānei i pā mai ngā tohumate, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei). Me noho koe ki te kāinga i a koe e noho taratahi ana, engari ehara i te mea me karo koe i ētahi atu o tō whare engari ia mēnā pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia ina eke te tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe ki te rā 3 me te rā 7 o tōna mate. Ka āhei koe ki te whakamutu i tō noho taratahi i te rā tonu ka mutu te tangata tuatahi i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā ka whakaatu tō whakamātautau kāore koe i te mate i te rā 7, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino ake rānei. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia anō tētahi o tō kāinga e te mate, ka āhei tonu ērā atu o te whare te whakamutu tā rātau noho taratahi ina mutu taua tangata tuatahi, engari me kore katoa ōna tohumate, kua kitea rānei kua kore kē e pāngia e te mate. Engari, ki te pāngia ētahi o te kāinga e te mate, me tīmata anō tā rātau noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe engari kāore koe i te noho tahi me te tangata kua pāngia e te mate, kāore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate, me mātua whakaritea he whakamātautau. I te mea he mea nui ngā ratonga hira mō ngā hiahia taketake o te tangata, he whakarato hanganga hira, he wāhanga hoki/rānei o ngā mekameka ratonga hira, ka taea e ā rātau kaimahi te toro i te Kaupapa Aweretanga Mō te Tāngata Whaipānga Tata. Ko ngā kaimahi kua werohia, kāore i te mate, kei ngā ratonga hira rēhita he whaipānga tata i te kāinga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 ka taea tonu te mahi, engari ia me whakaatu tō rātau whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kāore rātau i te mate i mua i te tīmatanga o te rā, wāhanga mahi rānei kei te mahi rātau i te wā noho taratahi, me te whai i ngā tikanga hauora tauwhāiti. Ka āhei anake rātau ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Ka taea e ēnei kaimahi te tiki ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mai i te wāhi hei tiki atu. Te whakamātautau me te hoki ki te mahi i te wā Omikona | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei tētahi pakihi, kaihokohoko takitahi rānei ki tētahi kaimahi he tangata whaipānga tata kei te wāhi mahi mēnā kāore ia i te pā ki ngā manuhiri, ā, me te noho ki te 'Rāhui Takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (me te haere atu me te hoki atu i te mahi). Me mātua whiwhi wero kano ārai mate te kaimahi, kāore ōna tohumate, ā, ka taea tonu te ū ki te 'rāhui takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (ahakoa kei roto, kei waho rānei). Ka āhei anake ia ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Rāhui Takitahi | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei ngā ratonga manaaki waiwai, pērā i ngā mahi o te wharepaku, te horoi me te kai, ki te haere tonu. Mēnā ka kitea he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga ki tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, me mātua whakamahi ngā kaitiaki i ngā tikanga horoi pai me te noho wehe i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea. Mēnā kaore e taea tēnei, me mātua mau utauta whakamaru tangata pērā i ngā karapu maka noa me ngā ārai kanohi. Ngā kōrero mā ngā kaimahi tautoko (external link) Mēnā ka pā mai ki a koe, ki tētahi atu rānei e tiakina ana e koe ngā tohumate kino me wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko ngā tohumate kino pea: he uaua te hēhē he takarangi, ka warea e te moe, he uaua rānei te oho ake kua kikorangi haere te waha, he kōmā me te makariri rānei he tino mamae te uma. Mēnā he kino ake tō mate, ā, me uru ki te hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i tō hoki ki te kāinga me te whai anō i ō mahi noa. Ka tirotirohia tēnei e ai ki te āhuatanga e tētahi mātanga hauora. Kāore he utu hauora mō te KOWHEORI-19. He maha ngā tāngata ka taea e rātau te noho taratahi i te kāinga me ngā āwhina mai i ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he āwhina kei reira mēnā kei te hiahia koe. Ngā tautoko mā ngā āwhina me ngā tāngata takitahi Ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi | business.govt.nz (external link) He tautoko atu anō mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei te noho taratahi rānei --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:09 am
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 variants --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero o ngā mahi ka taea e koe ki te whakariterite i tō whare mō te KOWHEORI-19 Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero o ngā mahi ka taea e koe ki te whakariterite i tō whare mō te KOWHEORI-19 Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 Kei te reri tō pakihi mō te KOWHEORI-19? | Is your business ready for COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Kei reira ētahi mahi māmā ka taea e ngā rangatira pakihi kia whāiti te hōrapa o te huaketo i waenga i ngā kaimahi, kiritaki me ētahi atu manuhiri. Me mātua whakarite kei te mārama koe, ā, ka whakatinanahia ngā whakaritenga mō tō pakihi i raro i te tikanga rama ikiiki. Rapu mōhio mō ngā rama ikiiki Whakamahia te utauta aromatawai werohanga kia mōhio ai mēnā me whakahaere pea ngā mahi i tō pakihi e te hunga kua werohia. Kei raro ētahi rāngai e ngā whakatau werohanga. Werohanga KOWHEORI-19 me te whai mahi | Employment NZ (external link) Ngā whakatau werohanga E paiherea ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te tiaki i ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu kua raru ā rātau mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu mōrea ki tō rātau hauora me tō rātau haumaru. Me mātua whakarite kei te tino haumaru rawa atu tō pakihi, wāhi mahi rānei: me whai i ngā whakaritenga ārai kanohi me matawai ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, tētahi atu momo whaiwhai i te pātanga me whai i ngā whakaritenga a My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) me mātua whakarite ka noho ngā tāngata katoa ki te kāinga mēnā kei te māuiui rātau, ā, ka waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi me wātea mai he wē patuero me ngā hua horoi me whakarite kei te pai te hauhau i te wāhi mahi Me takatū, me haumaru Te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te whakamātautau Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Whakahauhau | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Me whakarite mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI ki tō wāhi, ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu pakihi e mahi ana koe. Me mōhio koe he aha ō kawenga hei rangatira pakihi. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: te whakarite ka taea e ngā kaimahi te mahi mai i te kāinga ina tika ana te whakatinana i ngā rārangi mahi motuhake e rua – hei tauira, rōpū kikorangi me te whero (kia kaua e pā tahi ngā rōpū e rua tētahi ki tētahi) kia haere tonu ngā mahi me te whakarite mahere tuarua. Kua whakaputahia e Hīkina Whakatutuki tētahi aratohu (external link) hei āwhina te whakauru mai i ō kaimahi ki ngā kōrerorero me pēhea pea te whakarerekē i ngā tūranga, ngā kawenga me te āhua o te mahi ka pēhea pea tō whakahaere me ngā kaimahi tokoiti ake te mahi me ngā kaiwhakarato ohumahi wā poto mō te tūpono noa ka hiahia tautoko atu anō koe te hopu i ngā tukanga kia taea e ētahi atu kaimahi te mahi ngā mahi mēnā kāore e taea e tētahi te mahi kei a wai te kawenga, te mana rānei mō ngā tūmomo āhuatanga o tō pakihi? Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi. Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Mēnā he tuku ratonga koe, hua rānei ki ētahi atu pakihi, me whakapā atu pea koe ki ō kiritaki ka tuari i ō mahere. Mā te mārama ki ā rātau mahere ka āwhina anō pea i a koe kia takatū ai ki ngā rerekētanga o nga tono, ngā wā, me pēhea rānei te whakahāngai i te āhua o tō tuku i ō ratonga me ō hua kia rite ai ki ngā tikanga e mahi nei rātau. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: ka pēhea tō kōrero ki ngā kaimahi – kei te hou tonu ngā taipitopito whakapā a ngā kaimahi, ohotata hoki? ka pēhea tō tautoko i a rātau (hei tauira, te waewaea haere atu, te tuku tautoko atu anō mō ngā āhuatanga takitahi, aha atu, aha atu.)? ka pēhea tō whakamōhio atu ki ngā kiritaki, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mō tētahi whaipānga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 me mōhio rātau, mēnā rānei me huri koe i ō whakahaere nā te wāteatanga o ngā kaimahi? ka pēhea tō tiaki i te tūmataitinga o te tangata. Kaua rawa e tuaritia ngā ingoa me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā e whirinaki ana tō pakihi ki ngā hua, ngā ratonga rānei a ētahi atu pakihi, me kōrero koe ki a rātau mō ā rātau mahere mahi haere tonu, mahere tuarua hoki. Ka whai pānga pea ā rātau mahere ki āu ake. Ka hiahia pea koe ki te kōrero ki ngā kaiwhakarato: ka pēhea tā rātau whakarite i ngā hōnea o ngā kaimahi ka pēhea tā rātau tuku ratonga, rawa rānei mēnā he iti rawa ngā kaimahi? mēnā me whakaroa ake e koe ngā wā mō te whiwhi ōta, kia auau ake rānei te ōta? mēnā he kaimahi kei reira nō tētahi atu kaiwhakarato e tino whirinaki ana tō pakihi, ko wai te takawaenga tuarua? mēnā he iti rawa te kaha o tō kaiwhakarato, ko koe tonu tētahi o ngā kiritaki ka whakaratoa tonutia e rātau? Me whai whakaaro ki te hunga e whirinaki ana koe e mahi tahi nei tō pakihi me te whiriwhiri i ngā upane ka taea e koe me taua kaiwhakarato kia mau ai ngā ratonga e hiahiatia ana, ngā rawa rānei, ki te pāngia rātau e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whiwhi wero te tikanga pai rawa hei tiaki i ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga 18 tau, pakeke atu rānei e āhei ana ki tētahi potanga whakakaha mēnā kua eke te 3 marama mai i tā rātau whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu mōhio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi mō te werohanga | Employment New Zealand (external link) Kāore e kore ka pāngia tētahi tangata e mōhio ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Kei reira te pūnaha hauora manaaki i ngā wā katoa ki te tiaki i te hunga hiahia āwhina, engari ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e mate ki te uru ki te hōhipera, ā, ka pai noa iho te noho taratahi i te kāinga. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tāngata i ō rātau whare ki te kāinga, ā, kia kaua e pāpā ki ētahi atu, tae atu ki ō rātau hoa, whānau hoki. Me whakatenatena i te tangata ki te hanga mahere mā te whakamahi i tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū Mō te KOWHEORI-19. Me tikiake tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ka pā mai pea te ahotea i te whakahaere i ngā pānga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka hiahia tohutohu pea koe, ō hoa mahi, ō kaimahi rānei, he tangata noa iho rānei ki te kōrero – e wātea ana ngā āwhina. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe --- Section Separator --- Kei reira ētahi mahi māmā ka taea e ngā rangatira pakihi kia whāiti te hōrapa o te huaketo i waenga i ngā kaimahi, kiritaki me ētahi atu manuhiri. Me mātua whakarite kei te mārama koe, ā, ka whakatinanahia ngā whakaritenga mō tō pakihi i raro i te tikanga rama ikiiki. Rapu mōhio mō ngā rama ikiiki Whakamahia te utauta aromatawai werohanga kia mōhio ai mēnā me whakahaere pea ngā mahi i tō pakihi e te hunga kua werohia. Kei raro ētahi rāngai e ngā whakatau werohanga. Werohanga KOWHEORI-19 me te whai mahi | Employment NZ (external link) Ngā whakatau werohanga E paiherea ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te tiaki i ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu kua raru ā rātau mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu mōrea ki tō rātau hauora me tō rātau haumaru. Me mātua whakarite kei te tino haumaru rawa atu tō pakihi, wāhi mahi rānei: me whai i ngā whakaritenga ārai kanohi me matawai ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, tētahi atu momo whaiwhai i te pātanga me whai i ngā whakaritenga a My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) me mātua whakarite ka noho ngā tāngata katoa ki te kāinga mēnā kei te māuiui rātau, ā, ka waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi me wātea mai he wē patuero me ngā hua horoi me whakarite kei te pai te hauhau i te wāhi mahi Me takatū, me haumaru Te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te whakamātautau Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Whakahauhau | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Me whakarite mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI ki tō wāhi, ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu pakihi e mahi ana koe. Me mōhio koe he aha ō kawenga hei rangatira pakihi. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: te whakarite ka taea e ngā kaimahi te mahi mai i te kāinga ina tika ana te whakatinana i ngā rārangi mahi motuhake e rua – hei tauira, rōpū kikorangi me te whero (kia kaua e pā tahi ngā rōpū e rua tētahi ki tētahi) kia haere tonu ngā mahi me te whakarite mahere tuarua. Kua whakaputahia e Hīkina Whakatutuki tētahi aratohu (external link) hei āwhina te whakauru mai i ō kaimahi ki ngā kōrerorero me pēhea pea te whakarerekē i ngā tūranga, ngā kawenga me te āhua o te mahi ka pēhea pea tō whakahaere me ngā kaimahi tokoiti ake te mahi me ngā kaiwhakarato ohumahi wā poto mō te tūpono noa ka hiahia tautoko atu anō koe te hopu i ngā tukanga kia taea e ētahi atu kaimahi te mahi ngā mahi mēnā kāore e taea e tētahi te mahi kei a wai te kawenga, te mana rānei mō ngā tūmomo āhuatanga o tō pakihi? Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi. Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Mēnā he tuku ratonga koe, hua rānei ki ētahi atu pakihi, me whakapā atu pea koe ki ō kiritaki ka tuari i ō mahere. Mā te mārama ki ā rātau mahere ka āwhina anō pea i a koe kia takatū ai ki ngā rerekētanga o nga tono, ngā wā, me pēhea rānei te whakahāngai i te āhua o tō tuku i ō ratonga me ō hua kia rite ai ki ngā tikanga e mahi nei rātau. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: ka pēhea tō kōrero ki ngā kaimahi – kei te hou tonu ngā taipitopito whakapā a ngā kaimahi, ohotata hoki? ka pēhea tō tautoko i a rātau (hei tauira, te waewaea haere atu, te tuku tautoko atu anō mō ngā āhuatanga takitahi, aha atu, aha atu.)? ka pēhea tō whakamōhio atu ki ngā kiritaki, ngā kaiwhakarato, ngā kiritaki rānei mō tētahi whaipānga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 me mōhio rātau, mēnā rānei me huri koe i ō whakahaere nā te wāteatanga o ngā kaimahi? ka pēhea tō tiaki i te tūmataitinga o te tangata. Kaua rawa e tuaritia ngā ingoa me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā e whirinaki ana tō pakihi ki ngā hua, ngā ratonga rānei a ētahi atu pakihi, me kōrero koe ki a rātau mō ā rātau mahere mahi haere tonu, mahere tuarua hoki. Ka whai pānga pea ā rātau mahere ki āu ake. Ka hiahia pea koe ki te kōrero ki ngā kaiwhakarato: ka pēhea tā rātau whakarite i ngā hōnea o ngā kaimahi ka pēhea tā rātau tuku ratonga, rawa rānei mēnā he iti rawa ngā kaimahi? mēnā me whakaroa ake e koe ngā wā mō te whiwhi ōta, kia auau ake rānei te ōta? mēnā he kaimahi kei reira nō tētahi atu kaiwhakarato e tino whirinaki ana tō pakihi, ko wai te takawaenga tuarua? mēnā he iti rawa te kaha o tō kaiwhakarato, ko koe tonu tētahi o ngā kiritaki ka whakaratoa tonutia e rātau? Me whai whakaaro ki te hunga e whirinaki ana koe e mahi tahi nei tō pakihi me te whiriwhiri i ngā upane ka taea e koe me taua kaiwhakarato kia mau ai ngā ratonga e hiahiatia ana, ngā rawa rānei, ki te pāngia rātau e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whiwhi wero te tikanga pai rawa hei tiaki i ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga 18 tau, pakeke atu rānei e āhei ana ki tētahi potanga whakakaha mēnā kua eke te 3 marama mai i tā rātau whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu mōhio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi mō te werohanga | Employment New Zealand (external link) Kāore e kore ka pāngia tētahi tangata e mōhio ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Kei reira te pūnaha hauora manaaki i ngā wā katoa ki te tiaki i te hunga hiahia āwhina, engari ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e mate ki te uru ki te hōhipera, ā, ka pai noa iho te noho taratahi i te kāinga. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tāngata i ō rātau whare ki te kāinga, ā, kia kaua e pāpā ki ētahi atu, tae atu ki ō rātau hoa, whānau hoki. Me whakatenatena i te tangata ki te hanga mahere mā te whakamahi i tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū Mō te KOWHEORI-19. Me tikiake tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ka pā mai pea te ahotea i te whakahaere i ngā pānga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka hiahia tohutohu pea koe, ō hoa mahi, ō kaimahi rānei, he tangata noa iho rānei ki te kōrero – e wātea ana ngā āwhina. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 Kua rite tō kāinga ina pāngia tētahi e te KOWHEORI-19? | Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei | Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro --- Section Separator --- He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:11 am
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing He kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 | About COVID-19 testing --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau Kowheori-19 mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. He kore utu te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 mēnā he wāhanga o te urupare hauora tūmatanui. Ka uru ki tēnei mēnā: he tohumate āu he Pānga ā-Kāinga koe he kaimahi waiwai, ā, me whiwhi whakamātautau e haere ai koe ki te mahi he wāhanga koe o te hunga mahi hauora, ratonga ohorere hoki me whai whakamātautau mō ngā haerenga ā-rohe, te haere ki te kōti rānei te mahi i tētahi mahi e herea ana e ngā tikanga whakamātautau Kua tohutohutia kia whakamātautauria e tētahi mātanga hauora. E whakaaetia ana tō wehe i te kāinga ki te rapu whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga. Ka whakarārangihia e Healthpoint ngā pokapū whakamātautau mā te rohe. Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tētahi wāhi tūtata ki a koe i runga i te mahere. Rapua he pokapū whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) He mahi māmā noa te tono RAT hei whakamahinga i te kāinga, otirā he tukanga raupapa. Ka taea e koe te tono RAT mā ētahi atu.Me whai wāhi koe ki tētahi waea pūkoro ki te hāpono i tō tono. Tuihono: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Waea: 0800 222 478 , whiriwhiria te whiringa 3 (8am-8pm, 7 ra ia wiki) Ka tukua he nama tono ki a koe. Kātahi ka āhei koe te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. He whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pea ā tō tākuta. Waea atu ki te pātai, ā, ka whai i ā rātou tohutohu. Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga ā-kāinga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau Kowheori-19 mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. He kore utu te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 mēnā he wāhanga o te urupare hauora tūmatanui. Ka uru ki tēnei mēnā: he tohumate āu he Pānga ā-Kāinga koe he kaimahi waiwai, ā, me whiwhi whakamātautau e haere ai koe ki te mahi he wāhanga koe o te hunga mahi hauora, ratonga ohorere hoki me whai whakamātautau mō ngā haerenga ā-rohe, te haere ki te kōti rānei te mahi i tētahi mahi e herea ana e ngā tikanga whakamātautau Kua tohutohutia kia whakamātautauria e tētahi mātanga hauora. E whakaaetia ana tō wehe i te kāinga ki te rapu whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga. Ka whakarārangihia e Healthpoint ngā pokapū whakamātautau mā te rohe. Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tētahi wāhi tūtata ki a koe i runga i te mahere. Rapua he pokapū whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) He mahi māmā noa te tono RAT hei whakamahinga i te kāinga, otirā he tukanga raupapa. Ka taea e koe te tono RAT mā ētahi atu.Me whai wāhi koe ki tētahi waea pūkoro ki te hāpono i tō tono. Tuihono: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Waea: 0800 222 478 , whiriwhiria te whiringa 3 (8am-8pm, 7 ra ia wiki) Ka tukua he nama tono ki a koe. Kātahi ka āhei koe te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. He whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pea ā tō tākuta. Waea atu ki te pātai, ā, ka whai i ā rātou tohutohu. Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga ā-kāinga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. --- Section Separator --- E wātea ana ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki te iwi whānui mō te koreutu mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate, he pānga rānei nō tētahi pānga ā-kāinga. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina. --- Section Separator --- E wātea ana ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki te iwi whānui mō te koreutu mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate, he pānga rānei nō tētahi pānga ā-kāinga. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19? | What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Ehara i te mea me whakamā mēnā ka whakaatu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe - ka pā tēnei ki ngā tāngata katoa. Kāore he aha ki te KOWHEORI-19 ko wai ka whakapokea. Ki te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi rānei, māna, he rerekē ngā tohutohu a tētahi kaiwhakahaere tiakanga. Me pupuri hoki koe i tō waea, ā, me whakautu hoki. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau PCR kei te pāngia koe, ka whakamōhiotia koe ki tō hua mai i te nama ōkawa 2328. Kei roto tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono hei whakakī māhau. Ka āhua 10 ki te 20 mineti te roa ki te whakakī i te puka me te tono i ō mōhiohio hauora, ō pānga ā-kāinga, me ngā wāhi mōrearea nui i tae atu ai pea koe. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me tuku i tō hua ki My Covid Record. Mēnā e hiahia āwhina ana koe me waea i te 0800 222 478 . Mēnā e whiwhi ana koe i tētahi RAT e āta tirohia ana i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau hapori, tētahi atu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei, mā ngā kaimahi e whakauru i tō hua ki te raraunga matatapu a Te Manatū Hauora me My Covid Record. Ka tukuna hoki ki a koe tētahi pātuhi mai i te nama ōkawa 2328, kei roto nei tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono mō ngā mōhiohio hauora, whaiwhai pānga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaū ngā RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki tētahi whakamātautau PCR, māna he rerekē ngā tohutohu. Ka rerekē anō ngā tohutohu o ngā whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo, ā, he mea nui tonu te whai i ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga. E wātea ana he mōhiohio anō, me ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere RAT, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi | Tere Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Takiuru me te pūrongo i ō hua | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) Me noho taratahi i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi whakamātautau e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka tīmata tō wā taratahi mai i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, i te rā rānei ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mēnā kāore ō tohumate. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa kei te kāinga e noho ana. Ka wātea pea ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore e taea e koe te noho haumaru i te wāhi e noho ana koe. Ka taea e koe te tohu i tēnei mā te puka tuihono ka whakakīhia e koe. I muri i te wā noho taratahi, mēnā kua kore katoa ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e koe te puta i te noho taratahi.Ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō koe. Ko ō hoa noho kāinga me whai whakamātautau e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia e te mate, i ngā rā i mua o te putanga i te noho taratahi. Noho taratahi i te kāinga Mēnā e hiahia tohutohu hauora ana koe, tirohia ngā rauemi tuihono i te tuatahi. Ngā rauemi tuihono (external link) Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora kōhukihuki, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ko tō kaiwhakapā ko tētahi tangata takitahi pea, ko tētahi rōpū nō tō whare tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, tō ratonga hauora ā-hapori rānei. Te tautoko hauora i tō rohe - COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, ka kīia he Pānga ā-Kāinga. Ahakoa kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, karekau rānei, me: noho rātou ki te kāinga, ka noho taratahi i ētahi atu mai i te rā i whiwhi ai koe i tō hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mai i te wā rānei i tīmata ō tohumate, otirā ko te tuatahi o ērā. haere kia whakamātauria mō te KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā noho taratahi. haere kia whakamātauria mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate. Ina tohu tā rātou whakamātautau kei te pāngia, me tīmata anō tā rātou wā noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā e tohu ana ngā whakamātautau a ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore hoki he tohumate, ka taea e rātou te whakaoti i te wā noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe. Ina tohua ake tō whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me whakakī koe i tētahi puka tuihono mō te whaiwhai pānga me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mēnā kāore ō waea kawe, e hiahia ana rānei koe i te āwhina ki te whakakī i te puka, waea ki 0800 555 728 . Mā te puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei koe ki te tiri haumaru: i ō tohumate i ngā taipitopito o ō pānga ā-kāinga i ngā taipitopito o ngā wāhi mōrearea nui kua tae koe ētahi atu mōhiohio hauora ka āwhina i a mātou ki te whakarite i tō whiwhinga i te tautoko hauora āpiti mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Ka hono hoki ki tētahi tono āwhina oranga ki Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora, me ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore i te haumaru tō noho i tō kāinga ake. Mā tēnei puka, ka tiri koe i tō rātaka Nz Covid Tracer, me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka, i te mahi i runga i te waea - tata ki te 20 meneti noa iho. Kia whiwhi i a koe te pātuhi, ka taea e koe te tīmata i roto i te 72 hāora. Ki te kore koe e tuku i te puka i roto i te 72 hāora, ka waea pea tētahi tangata me te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga i te waea. Puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ehara i te mea me whakamā mēnā ka whakaatu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe - ka pā tēnei ki ngā tāngata katoa. Kāore he aha ki te KOWHEORI-19 ko wai ka whakapokea. Ki te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi rānei, māna, he rerekē ngā tohutohu a tētahi kaiwhakahaere tiakanga. Me pupuri hoki koe i tō waea, ā, me whakautu hoki. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau PCR kei te pāngia koe, ka whakamōhiotia koe ki tō hua mai i te nama ōkawa 2328. Kei roto tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono hei whakakī māhau. Ka āhua 10 ki te 20 mineti te roa ki te whakakī i te puka me te tono i ō mōhiohio hauora, ō pānga ā-kāinga, me ngā wāhi mōrearea nui i tae atu ai pea koe. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me tuku i tō hua ki My Covid Record. Mēnā e hiahia āwhina ana koe me waea i te 0800 222 478 . Mēnā e whiwhi ana koe i tētahi RAT e āta tirohia ana i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau hapori, tētahi atu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei, mā ngā kaimahi e whakauru i tō hua ki te raraunga matatapu a Te Manatū Hauora me My Covid Record. Ka tukuna hoki ki a koe tētahi pātuhi mai i te nama ōkawa 2328, kei roto nei tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono mō ngā mōhiohio hauora, whaiwhai pānga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaū ngā RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki tētahi whakamātautau PCR, māna he rerekē ngā tohutohu. Ka rerekē anō ngā tohutohu o ngā whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo, ā, he mea nui tonu te whai i ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga. E wātea ana he mōhiohio anō, me ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere RAT, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi | Tere Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Takiuru me te pūrongo i ō hua | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) Me noho taratahi i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi whakamātautau e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka tīmata tō wā taratahi mai i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, i te rā rānei ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mēnā kāore ō tohumate. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa kei te kāinga e noho ana. Ka wātea pea ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore e taea e koe te noho haumaru i te wāhi e noho ana koe. Ka taea e koe te tohu i tēnei mā te puka tuihono ka whakakīhia e koe. I muri i te wā noho taratahi, mēnā kua kore katoa ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e koe te puta i te noho taratahi.Ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō koe. Ko ō hoa noho kāinga me whai whakamātautau e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia e te mate, i ngā rā i mua o te putanga i te noho taratahi. Noho taratahi i te kāinga Mēnā e hiahia tohutohu hauora ana koe, tirohia ngā rauemi tuihono i te tuatahi. Ngā rauemi tuihono (external link) Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora kōhukihuki, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ko tō kaiwhakapā ko tētahi tangata takitahi pea, ko tētahi rōpū nō tō whare tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, tō ratonga hauora ā-hapori rānei. Te tautoko hauora i tō rohe - COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, ka kīia he Pānga ā-Kāinga. Ahakoa kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, karekau rānei, me: noho rātou ki te kāinga, ka noho taratahi i ētahi atu mai i te rā i whiwhi ai koe i tō hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mai i te wā rānei i tīmata ō tohumate, otirā ko te tuatahi o ērā. haere kia whakamātauria mō te KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā noho taratahi. haere kia whakamātauria mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate. Ina tohu tā rātou whakamātautau kei te pāngia, me tīmata anō tā rātou wā noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā e tohu ana ngā whakamātautau a ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore hoki he tohumate, ka taea e rātou te whakaoti i te wā noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe. Ina tohua ake tō whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me whakakī koe i tētahi puka tuihono mō te whaiwhai pānga me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mēnā kāore ō waea kawe, e hiahia ana rānei koe i te āwhina ki te whakakī i te puka, waea ki 0800 555 728 . Mā te puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei koe ki te tiri haumaru: i ō tohumate i ngā taipitopito o ō pānga ā-kāinga i ngā taipitopito o ngā wāhi mōrearea nui kua tae koe ētahi atu mōhiohio hauora ka āwhina i a mātou ki te whakarite i tō whiwhinga i te tautoko hauora āpiti mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Ka hono hoki ki tētahi tono āwhina oranga ki Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora, me ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore i te haumaru tō noho i tō kāinga ake. Mā tēnei puka, ka tiri koe i tō rātaka Nz Covid Tracer, me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka, i te mahi i runga i te waea - tata ki te 20 meneti noa iho. Kia whiwhi i a koe te pātuhi, ka taea e koe te tīmata i roto i te 72 hāora. Ki te kore koe e tuku i te puka i roto i te 72 hāora, ka waea pea tētahi tangata me te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga i te waea. Puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai | When you should get a test --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei ōu, me whai whakamātautau. Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mā tētahi mātanga hauora koe e whakamōhio ake. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate, me whiwhi noa koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā kua tohutohutia koe e tētahi āpiha hauora - hei tauira, mēnā he pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi i whakatauria ai kei te pāngia. Ngā tohumate COVID-19 E whiwhi ai koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, waea ki: Tō tākuta, nēhi rānei Healthline mō te koreutu i te 0800 358 5453 tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi, he wāhi whakamātautau ā-hapori rānei. Kimihia ngā wāhi whakamātautau Mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau. E kore ngā pānga tata e mate ki te rapu whakamātautau, māna ka kitea he tohumate. Kāre koe e hiahiatia kia whiwhi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa. Mēnā e haere ana koe i Aotearoa ki tētahi atu whenua, tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi whakawātanga Kōti neke atu i te 1 rā, ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakahaere i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT), ki te whakaū rānei kua whakahaere koe i te RAT i ia ata i mua i te tīmata o te whakawākanga a te Kōti. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whai i tēnei mahi mēnā he neke atu i te haurua rā te whakawākanga. Mā te kaiwhakawā e whakatau. Mēnā he roa ake te whakawātanga i te kotahi wiki, mai i te wiki tuarua me mahi pea koe i tētahi RAT hei te Mane, ā, kātahi i ia rā whakawākanga tuarua. Mā te kaiwhakawā e whakatau. Ngā tukanga KOWHEORI-19 ā-kōti | courtsofnz.govt.nz (external link) E herea ana ētahi tāngata ki te whiwhi i ngā whakamātautau auau nā te mōrearea e pā ana ki tō rātou tūranga mahi. Ka uru ki tēnei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 me te tūpono tuku haere i taua mate ki ētahi atu. Ngā mahi whakamātautau mā ngā kaimahi waiwai --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei ōu, me whai whakamātautau. Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mā tētahi mātanga hauora koe e whakamōhio ake. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate, me whiwhi noa koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā kua tohutohutia koe e tētahi āpiha hauora - hei tauira, mēnā he pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi i whakatauria ai kei te pāngia. Ngā tohumate COVID-19 E whiwhi ai koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, waea ki: Tō tākuta, nēhi rānei Healthline mō te koreutu i te 0800 358 5453 tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi, he wāhi whakamātautau ā-hapori rānei. Kimihia ngā wāhi whakamātautau Mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau. E kore ngā pānga tata e mate ki te rapu whakamātautau, māna ka kitea he tohumate. Kāre koe e hiahiatia kia whiwhi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa. Mēnā e haere ana koe i Aotearoa ki tētahi atu whenua, tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi whakawātanga Kōti neke atu i te 1 rā, ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakahaere i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT), ki te whakaū rānei kua whakahaere koe i te RAT i ia ata i mua i te tīmata o te whakawākanga a te Kōti. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whai i tēnei mahi mēnā he neke atu i te haurua rā te whakawākanga. Mā te kaiwhakawā e whakatau. Mēnā he roa ake te whakawātanga i te kotahi wiki, mai i te wiki tuarua me mahi pea koe i tētahi RAT hei te Mane, ā, kātahi i ia rā whakawākanga tuarua. Mā te kaiwhakawā e whakatau. Ngā tukanga KOWHEORI-19 ā-kōti | courtsofnz.govt.nz (external link) E herea ana ētahi tāngata ki te whiwhi i ngā whakamātautau auau nā te mōrearea e pā ana ki tō rātou tūranga mahi. Ka uru ki tēnei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 me te tūpono tuku haere i taua mate ki ētahi atu. Ngā mahi whakamātautau mā ngā kaimahi waiwai --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki, he whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, e rite ana tō tātou pūnaha hauora ki te urupare atu. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki, he whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, e rite ana tō tātou pūnaha hauora ki te urupare atu. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Kākāriki | Life at Green --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki kāore he herenga mō te mau maruhā, te matawai, ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i ngā wāhi i rō whare, i waho rānei, ngā whakaritenga kano ārai (māna kua whakamanahia mō tō mahi), te hāereere rānei. Heoi anō, e tūtohua ana me ū tonu ki ngā ritenga hauora kia noho haumaru ai. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, me whakamātauria koe. Mēnā kua pāngia koe, me whai i ngā herenga hauora katoa, tae atu ki te noho taratahi. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] Te whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19 Koinei te wā pai ki te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19. Whakaritea tētahi mahere mā tō kāinga, pakihi rānei mō te tūpono ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea hoki te tikiake i tētahi Arowhai Takatū. Me whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki kāore he herenga mō te mau maruhā, te matawai, ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i ngā wāhi i rō whare, i waho rānei, ngā whakaritenga kano ārai (māna kua whakamanahia mō tō mahi), te hāereere rānei. Heoi anō, e tūtohua ana me ū tonu ki ngā ritenga hauora kia noho haumaru ai. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, me whakamātauria koe. Mēnā kua pāngia koe, me whai i ngā herenga hauora katoa, tae atu ki te noho taratahi. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] Te whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19 Koinei te wā pai ki te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19. Whakaritea tētahi mahere mā tō kāinga, pakihi rānei mō te tūpono ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea hoki te tikiake i tētahi Arowhai Takatū. Me whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Karaka | Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Karaka. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Karaka i te reo Ingarihi Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i tētahi kaupapa (kia mōhio mai, i ngā huihuinga, e herea ana anake ngā kaimahi ki te mau i ngā maruhā noa) Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata hauā, raruraru hauora rānei, te mau maruhā.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Ka taea e koe te whakahaere, te haere rānei ki tētahi huihuinga i te Karaka, hei tauira, te tūtakitaki hoa, te whakahaere mārena, te haere ki te karakia. Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā taiao manaaki, hokohoko, mātauranga me ngā wāhi mahi. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Karaka. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Karaka i te reo Ingarihi Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i tētahi kaupapa (kia mōhio mai, i ngā huihuinga, e herea ana anake ngā kaimahi ki te mau i ngā maruhā noa) Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata hauā, raruraru hauora rānei, te mau maruhā.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Ka taea e koe te whakahaere, te haere rānei ki tētahi huihuinga i te Karaka, hei tauira, te tūtakitaki hoa, te whakahaere mārena, te haere ki te karakia. Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā taiao manaaki, hokohoko, mātauranga me ngā wāhi mahi. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Whero | Life at Red --- Section Separator --- I te Whero, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Tērā ētahi tepenga mō te maha o te tangata mō ētahi kaupapa kei rō whare. I pēnei ai nā te mea e mōhio ana mātou he tere hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Whero. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Whero i te reo Ingarihi Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi ūnga, wehe rānei o ngā rererangi ā-motu me ngā waka kawe tūmatanui mēnā kei rō whare. mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 8 tau, he tauira rānei kei te Tau 4, piki ake rānei, kei runga waka kawe tūmatanui, me ngā kawenga e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā taiao i rō whare i te kura, hei tauira, ngā akomanga me ngā huihuinga kura. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā manuhiri, ngā kaimahi, ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako i ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 i rō whare mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i ngā whare kai, whare inu hoki. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō maruhā ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana i ngā pākihi tūtata, hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare pani kanohi ina haere koe ki tētahi huihuinga i rō whare, hāunga i te wā nōu ake te kaupapa, ā, he motuhake. i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i roto i ngā whare whakapakari tinana i tētahi huihuinga ngā kaiako o ngā ākonga Tau 4 ki te 13. Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, ka kore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Whero. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tō ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- I te Whero, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Tērā ētahi tepenga mō te maha o te tangata mō ētahi kaupapa kei rō whare. I pēnei ai nā te mea e mōhio ana mātou he tere hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Whero. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Whero i te reo Ingarihi Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi ūnga, wehe rānei o ngā rererangi ā-motu me ngā waka kawe tūmatanui mēnā kei rō whare. mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 8 tau, he tauira rānei kei te Tau 4, piki ake rānei, kei runga waka kawe tūmatanui, me ngā kawenga e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā taiao i rō whare i te kura, hei tauira, ngā akomanga me ngā huihuinga kura. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā manuhiri, ngā kaimahi, ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako i ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 i rō whare mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i ngā whare kai, whare inu hoki. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō maruhā ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana i ngā pākihi tūtata, hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare pani kanohi ina haere koe ki tētahi huihuinga i rō whare, hāunga i te wā nōu ake te kaupapa, ā, he motuhake. i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i roto i ngā whare whakapakari tinana i tētahi huihuinga ngā kaiako o ngā ākonga Tau 4 ki te 13. Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, ka kore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Whero. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tō ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E āta huaki mai ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E āta huaki mai ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te Wehe i Aotearoa | Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: i te paetukutuku whaimana o te whenua e hiahia ana koe ki te uru atu, te peka rānei, tērā rānei i te māngai kāwanatanga o taua whenua kei Aotearoa. Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ina whakaūngia ō mahere haerenga, whakapā atu ki Healthline, ki tō rata rānei. Rapua te wā me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia. Me tutuki te whakamātautau kia tino tata ki te wā o tō wehenga — tirohia te wā e hāngai ana ki tō whenua. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu i te whakamātautau. Ka tukuna tō whakamātautau ki tētahi taiwhanga paetata, ā, ka tukuna he otinga ki tō rata, ki a koe tonu rānei. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e tētahi kaiwhakarato hauora mō te otinga o te whakamātautau. Tērā pea ka pau ētahi rā kia puta mai ō otinga, nō reira me whakarite kia kaua rawa e tino tōmuri. Me kī ka whakaatu te otinga kāore koe i te mate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi kape tāhiko, pepa rānei o ngā otinga hei heri ki te taunga rererangi. Mēnā ka kitea kei te mate koe, ka kōrero tō kaiwhakarato hauora ki a koe ka aha ā muri ake. Me heri ō otinga whakamātautau kore mate ki te wāhi taki-mai i te taunga rererangi. Me whakaatu pea koe i ō otinga ki te mana ārai, te ratonga manene rānei i tō taenga atu ki te wāhi e haere ana koe. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: i te paetukutuku whaimana o te whenua e hiahia ana koe ki te uru atu, te peka rānei, tērā rānei i te māngai kāwanatanga o taua whenua kei Aotearoa. Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ina whakaūngia ō mahere haerenga, whakapā atu ki Healthline, ki tō rata rānei. Rapua te wā me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia. Me tutuki te whakamātautau kia tino tata ki te wā o tō wehenga — tirohia te wā e hāngai ana ki tō whenua. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu i te whakamātautau. Ka tukuna tō whakamātautau ki tētahi taiwhanga paetata, ā, ka tukuna he otinga ki tō rata, ki a koe tonu rānei. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e tētahi kaiwhakarato hauora mō te otinga o te whakamātautau. Tērā pea ka pau ētahi rā kia puta mai ō otinga, nō reira me whakarite kia kaua rawa e tino tōmuri. Me kī ka whakaatu te otinga kāore koe i te mate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi kape tāhiko, pepa rānei o ngā otinga hei heri ki te taunga rererangi. Mēnā ka kitea kei te mate koe, ka kōrero tō kaiwhakarato hauora ki a koe ka aha ā muri ake. Me heri ō otinga whakamātautau kore mate ki te wāhi taki-mai i te taunga rererangi. Me whakaatu pea koe i ō otinga ki te mana ārai, te ratonga manene rānei i tō taenga atu ki te wāhi e haere ana koe. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te hāereere i Aotearoa | Travel around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te haere ki Aotearoa | Travelling to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Kua kore e hiahiatia tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haerenga, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) Ka taea e ngā kirirarau o Aotearoa me ētahi atu tāngata e māraurau ana te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa, ā, me te whakamātautau anō i a koe i tō taenga mai. Ki te tiro mēnā e māraurau ana koe, haere ki te pae tukutuku a Immigration New Zealand. Ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa me whiwhi i ngā pota katoa o tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia, ahakoa tērā ētahi aweretanga. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Ngā herenga kano ārai mate me ngā kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Me whakaoti ngā tāngata haere katoa, i tētahi Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa i mua i te haere ki Aotearoa. Kia oti ana, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi Traveller Pass. Kia wawe tonu te whakarite i tō whakapuakanga. Ka taea e koe te whakakī haere i te 28 rā i mua i tō haerenga. Tīmataria tō whakapuakanga hāereere (external link) Rau mōhiohio whakapuakanga tangata haere (external link) E oti ai tō whakapuakanga haere, me whakarato koe i: ngā taipitopito uruwhenua ngā mōhiohio haere te whakaaturanga kano ārai mate (mēnā e hiahiatia ana) tō hītori haere mō ngā rā 14 kua hipa ngā taipitopito whakapā i Aotearoa ngā taipitopito whakapā ohotata Tirohia anō ngā taipitopito kua tāurua e koe ki te whakapuakanga hāereere ki te whakarite mēnā e rite ana ki ō tuhinga ōkawa. Me whakaatu koe i tō Traveller Pass ina taki-mai koe ki te taunga rererangi, ā, me whakaatu hoki ki Te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa. Ka taea te tā, te roki rānei ki tō pūrere kawe. Me kawe tonu koe i ngā pepa hāngai kua oti i a koe te tuku ake ki te Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa. Aratohu ki te tuku ake i ō taunakitanga (external link) Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: uruwhenua kōkota - ki te hiahiatia tīkiti mō tō haerenga te Whakapuakanga Hāereere kua oti te whakakī taunakitanga o tō tūnga kano ārai mate Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i mua i tō rerenga, mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 rānei pēnei i te Ihu Pāwera, ka pātai pea ngā kaimahi rererangi mēnā he tohumate ōu. ki te pātaitia koe, me whakaatu: i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā mai i tētahi mātanga hauora ki te whakaū kāore koe i te pokea, kāore rānei i te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 (kua tirohia i te 48 hāora i mua i tana rerenga) taunakitanga rānei o tēnei hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kua tirohia, e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia. Ko ngā whakamātautau i mua i te haerenga kua whakaaetia ko: te whakamātautau PCR i whakahaeretia 48 hāora i mua i tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kua tirohia, tētahi whakamātautau loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) rānei i mahia e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa. te whakamātautau PCR i whakahaeretia 48 hāora i mua i tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kua tirohia, tētahi whakamātautau loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) rānei i mahia e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa. Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere, tō tūnga kano ārai mate, tō Whakapuakanga Hāereere, me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I te Haumaru koiora, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi pūhera whakatau. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: Ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere he aratohu o te whakamātautau me te tuku atu i ō hua. Whakaotihia ō whakamātautau, ā, ka tuku atu i ō hua, i runga anō i ngā tohu. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Kua kore e hiahiatia tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haerenga, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) Ka taea e ngā kirirarau o Aotearoa me ētahi atu tāngata e māraurau ana te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa, ā, me te whakamātautau anō i a koe i tō taenga mai. Ki te tiro mēnā e māraurau ana koe, haere ki te pae tukutuku a Immigration New Zealand. Ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa me whiwhi i ngā pota katoa o tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia, ahakoa tērā ētahi aweretanga. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Ngā herenga kano ārai mate me ngā kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Me whakaoti ngā tāngata haere katoa, i tētahi Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa i mua i te haere ki Aotearoa. Kia oti ana, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi Traveller Pass. Kia wawe tonu te whakarite i tō whakapuakanga. Ka taea e koe te whakakī haere i te 28 rā i mua i tō haerenga. Tīmataria tō whakapuakanga hāereere (external link) Rau mōhiohio whakapuakanga tangata haere (external link) E oti ai tō whakapuakanga haere, me whakarato koe i: ngā taipitopito uruwhenua ngā mōhiohio haere te whakaaturanga kano ārai mate (mēnā e hiahiatia ana) tō hītori haere mō ngā rā 14 kua hipa ngā taipitopito whakapā i Aotearoa ngā taipitopito whakapā ohotata Tirohia anō ngā taipitopito kua tāurua e koe ki te whakapuakanga hāereere ki te whakarite mēnā e rite ana ki ō tuhinga ōkawa. Me whakaatu koe i tō Traveller Pass ina taki-mai koe ki te taunga rererangi, ā, me whakaatu hoki ki Te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa. Ka taea te tā, te roki rānei ki tō pūrere kawe. Me kawe tonu koe i ngā pepa hāngai kua oti i a koe te tuku ake ki te Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa. Aratohu ki te tuku ake i ō taunakitanga (external link) Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: uruwhenua kōkota - ki te hiahiatia tīkiti mō tō haerenga te Whakapuakanga Hāereere kua oti te whakakī taunakitanga o tō tūnga kano ārai mate Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i mua i tō rerenga, mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 rānei pēnei i te Ihu Pāwera, ka pātai pea ngā kaimahi rererangi mēnā he tohumate ōu. ki te pātaitia koe, me whakaatu: i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā mai i tētahi mātanga hauora ki te whakaū kāore koe i te pokea, kāore rānei i te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 (kua tirohia i te 48 hāora i mua i tana rerenga) taunakitanga rānei o tēnei hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kua tirohia, e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia. Ko ngā whakamātautau i mua i te haerenga kua whakaaetia ko: te whakamātautau PCR i whakahaeretia 48 hāora i mua i tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kua tirohia, tētahi whakamātautau loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) rānei i mahia e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa. te whakamātautau PCR i whakahaeretia 48 hāora i mua i tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kua tirohia, tētahi whakamātautau loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) rānei i mahia e 24 hāora i mua i te wā wehe o tō rerenga ā-ao tuatahi ki Aotearoa. Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere, tō tūnga kano ārai mate, tō Whakapuakanga Hāereere, me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I te Haumaru koiora, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi pūhera whakatau. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: Ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere he aratohu o te whakamātautau me te tuku atu i ō hua. Whakaotihia ō whakamātautau, ā, ka tuku atu i ō hua, i runga anō i ngā tohu. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.

Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:10 am
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere | International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku tohu ārai mate | My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- This data is updated every weekday, except public holidays. For weekend case numbers visit the Ministry of Health website: Weekend case numbers (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 July 2022 at 4:45 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19. We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | Ministry of Health (external link) 689 Cases in hospital 689 Cases in hospital 8,395 New community cases 8,395 New community cases 280 Cases recently arrived from overseas 280 Cases recently arrived from overseas 64,912 Active community cases 64,912 Active community cases 80 People who have been reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection 80 People who have been reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 July 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and COVID-19 related deaths. COVID-19 related deaths include: people whose cause of death was not COVID-19 but they had COVID-19 when they died people whose cause of death is still under investigation. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 17 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 17 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 1,628 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 1,628 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 1,688 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths 1,688 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 July 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 264,687 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 264,687 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 137,182 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 137,182 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 2,779,459 Booster doses administered (16+) 2,779,459 Booster doses administered (16+) --- Section Separator --- Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 July 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 12,714 RATs reported in last 24 hours 12,714 RATs reported in last 24 hours 2,183 PCR tests in last 24 hours 2,183 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you are a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Home News and data Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- This map shows the vaccination rates for areas around New Zealand. Type your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first, second or booster dose in your area, compared with the national average. --- Section Separator --- Age group Dose Ethnicity Map areas A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb — there are 2,156 in NZ. Territorial Authorities are our city councils and district councils — there are 67 in NZ. There are 20 District Health Boards (DHBs) in NZ. Boosters are for the 16+ population. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first, second or booster dose. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over N/A Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over N/A A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb — there are 2,156 in NZ. Territorial Authorities are our city councils and district councils — there are 67 in NZ. There are 20 District Health Boards (DHBs) in NZ. Boosters are for the 16+ population. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first, second or booster dose. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1012 updates 11 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jul 2022 A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. 08 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jul 2022 Employers can consider text messages the Ministry of Health sends to people with COVID-19 and their household contacts as proof of needing time off work. 04 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident.
A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020.
A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453.
Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453.
Two thirds of New Zealanders are now eligible for their booster, as new mask requirements come in to help keep people safe. If you got your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, you can walk-in or book to get your booster from today. There is plenty of capacity to get vaccinated this weekend and throughout February, wherever you are in the country. This is the best thing you can do to protect yourselves and your whānau as we prepare for Omicron. Get boosted, and wear a mask when you cannot distance from others. We will have a much better chance of facing the virus if we are well prepared. From 11:59pm last night (3 February) medical type masks became mandatory for those people who fall under a vaccine mandate and are in public-facing roles at work. For everyone else, masks are still mandatory on flights, public transport, in taxis, retail, public facilities, and in education for Year 4 and up. They are also now mandatory in close proximity businesses, food and drink businesses, at public events and gatherings. Masks can no longer be a t-shirt, bandana or scarf. It needs to cover your mouth and nose, and attach with ear or head loops. Ensuring you have the right mask, and that it is worn properly, will improve the overall effectiveness of wearing them and help reduce transmission of COVID-19, including Omicron. We are now looking to the next stages of our response to COVID-19 and Reconnecting New Zealanders to the world. We are preparing for the virus in our communities by putting measures in place to tackle it head on. Our high vaccination rates and climbing booster rate is our best defence from getting very sick from the virus, while masks help us to reduce the likelihood of passing it on to others or picking it up. These measures and continued good hygiene practices, alongside our phased plan to take on Omicron, will help keep our supply chains operating, economy ticking, people in work and kids in school. Everyone over 18 can check when they are due for a booster by visiting mycovidrecord.nz (external link) or if they have one, referring to their purple COVID-19 Vaccine appointment card or calling COVID Vaccination Healthline 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book your booster or find a walk-in vaccination centre at bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) or call COVID Vaccination Healthline 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Whānau bookings (group bookings for more than one person) can be made by calling 0800 28 29 26 . COVID-19 vaccines will continue to be available at mobile and pop-up vaccination clinics, particularly in rural Māori communities as well as marae vaccinations where a number of kaumatua received their initial doses. Interpretation services, and text, email and NZ Relay options for deaf and hearing impaired are available if you need them on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). There is also a specialist team for disabled people (option 2 on the 0800 number). Workers who fall under a legal vaccine mandate and are in a public-facing role will be required to wear a medical-grade mask (Type IIR/Level 2 or above). Children in Year 4 and up will need to wear a mask on Ministry of Education funded school transport services and public transport, as well as in school. Teachers of students in Years 4 to 13 are required to wear medical-grade masks, as above. Everyone else must wear masks in close-proximity businesses, food and drink businesses, at events and gatherings. You will still be able to remove your mask when eating and drinking. This must be an actual mask with ear or head loops that covers both the nose and mouth properly and fits against the face. That means no more scarves, bandanas, or t-shirts pulled up. Most gatherings where guests have exclusive use of a defined space will not require guests to wear a mask, such as weddings. Workers (including volunteers) will continue to be required to wear a mask. People are not required to wear masks in non-public facing workplaces, but all employers should continue to think about mask use policies that protect their workforce. Masks are also not required when using gyms or swimming pools, however it is encouraged when moving around or in close proximity to others.
This means that most of the deaths that have now been publicly announced have been assessed as either having COVID-19 as the underlying cause, contributing to the death, or unrelated to the death. As of this morning: 447 people have died with COVID-19 as the underlying cause of death. Of these, 439 died within 28 days of being reported as a case. 231 people have died with COVID-19 as a contributing cause of death. Of these, 229 died within 28 days of being reported as a case. 161 people, all of whom died within 28 days of being reported as a case, had a cause of death unrelated to COVID-19 138 people who died within 28 days of being reported as a case have yet to be classified. In some instances, the cause of death can take longer to determined, including if it is being investigated by a coroner. Our thoughts are with everyone who has lost a loved one from COVID-19. While there has been a significant increase in the number of deaths from COVID-19 since the start of the Omicron outbreak, New Zealand has still experienced significantly lower cumulative COVID-19 mortality than most countries. These deaths are a sobering reminder that, while most people with COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness, for some people it can lead to severe illness and even death. There are three actions everyone can do to help protect themselves and others from COVID-19 and potentially save lives. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you have not yet had one. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings as we know that mask use halves the risk of spread of COVID-19. When you need to wear a face mask Stay home and avoid others if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health will continue to update information about deaths of people with COVID-19, including the cause of death, on their website. COVID-19 case demographics | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There were 41,077 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: 7,432 first doses, and 14,223 second doses. To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 86% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Transcript of the 4pm media conference --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Transcript of the 10:30am media conference
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Watch the media conference here. --- Section Separator --- 9,495 new community cases 47 new cases identified at the border 551 cases in hospital 2,814 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 15,547 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,708 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,495 community cases, 551 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 9,288 – last Wednesday it was 12,307. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. There are three actions that everyone can do to help protect themselves and others. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you’ve not yet had one. Wear a mask. Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings. Stay home and avoid others if you’re unwell. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. These deaths all occurred over the past eight days, including 11 in the past two days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 531 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one was from Northland, four from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, one from Bay of Plenty, one from Lakes DHB area, two from MidCentral, three from Nelson Marlborough, and two from Canterbury. One person was aged in their 40s, two in their 50s, two in their 60s, four in their 70s, five in their 80s, and one over 90. Eight were female and seven were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Ministry of Health Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 6,133 new community cases 377 cases in hospital 41,863 active community cases 13,689 total RATs reported 3,645 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. All these people died within the past 24 days. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,348 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 1 person was from Northland, 5 were from the Auckland region, 3 from Waikato, 1 from the Lakes DHB region, 4 from Taranaki, 2 from MidCentral, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, 2 from the Wellington region, 1 from South Canterbury, and 3 from Southern. One person was in their 50s, 3 were in their 70s, 11 were in their 80s, and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 15 were women and 8 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4:20pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Ministry of Health Primary Care Lead, Dr Joe Bourne Ministry of Social Development Deputy Chief Executive, Viv Rickard. Watch the media conference here.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12:20pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Minister of COVID-19 Response Dr Ayesha Verrall Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 5,499 new community cases 334 cases in hospital 34,091 active community cases 11,791 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,949 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 18 people with COVID-19. 15 deaths of the reported occurred in the past 3 days, and 3 occurred since 13 June 2022. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,450 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from MidCentral, 5 were from the Wellington region, 2 were from Nelson-Marlborough, 3 were from Canterbury, 1 was from South Canterbury, and 2 were from Southern. 1 person was in 50s, 1 was in their 60s, 3 were in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were male and 10 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. The long weekend is always an ideal time to get away and relax with whānau and friends. If you are going away, please remember to have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a Household Contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a Household Contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate, taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home – such as maintaining social distance (distancing yourself from others), wearing your mask correctly, making sure you keep your hands clean and dry and using self-service petrol stations if you need to refuel your vehicle. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to travel to isolate at your home. So it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying if you need to do so. As with all variants of Omicron, the public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Stay home if you’re unwell, get tested if you are symptomatic, wash and dry your hands, cover coughs and sneezes, wear a mask in crowded or poorly ventilated indoor public settings and get vaccinated. If you get COVID-19 while travelling Face masks at Orange Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12 noon. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch livestream here.
The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 1.30pm. Speakers: Ministry of Health Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town Ministry of Health Chief Testing Advisor Kirsten Beynon Ministry of Health Lead Science Advisor Dr Fiona Callaghan
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. --- Section Separator --- The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database.
The new Statistics NZ figures provide a measure of the overall rate of deaths in New Zealand during the pandemic compared to pre-pandemic years. It is not a measure of people known to have died from COVID-19 and reflects all causes of deaths during this time. Comparing the actual number of deaths in New Zealand since the start of the pandemic with the expected number of deaths during that period, based on earlier years’ figures, shows fewer deaths than expected. We recognise the pain of losing a family member or friend, and do not wish to diminish that, but it is welcome that this data, which is the best measure we have to date, shows there was not a higher-than-normal death rate in New Zealand over the first two years of the pandemic. This reflected the benefits of our COVID-19 response in reducing exposure to the virus and protecting our more vulnerable New Zealanders and a decision to implement a nationwide response coordinated from the centre. Vaccination has played a key role, along with border and isolation measures, in keeping people safe from the more deadly variants of COVID-19 by keeping them out of the community or significantly limiting their spread. It also reflects our ability to continue to provide non COVID-19-related health services and procedures to the public, which many other countries had to severely curtail. For instance, if New Zealand had a similar rate of COVID-19 mortality as the United States, we would be reporting approximately 15,000 deaths from COVID-19 today. Despite doing better than most countries, these deaths are a reminder that, while most people with COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness, for some people it can lead to severe illness and even death. Being up to date with vaccinations, wearing a mask indoors and staying home if unwell can help protect themselves and others from COVID-19 and potentially save lives. Excess mortality contributes to our overall picture of the toll of the pandemic, including any changes in mortality that are directly or indirectly due to the pandemic. The Statistics New Zealand measures, in conjunction with previous research, indicate that: In 2020, the first year of the pandemic, the proportion of people that died in New Zealand dropped for reasons including a reduction in accident-related deaths and the closed borders greatly reducing influenza and other respiratory in New Zealand in 2020. In 2021, the second year of the pandemic, the rate of deaths followed a similar pattern to that seen in 2019 prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, though deaths from COVID-19 were low. In 2020 and 2021, the rate of deaths among people over-90-years-old, the population among the most at risk from COVID-19, remained the same or even lower than expected compared with most other countries. Again, this reflected the benefits of our COVID-19 response in reducing exposure to the virus and protecting our more vulnerable New Zealanders. Sadly, during the Omicron outbreak we have seen an increase in the rate of deaths among people over 90 compared to pre-pandemic years. However, to put these numbers in context, the mortality rate in the 90+ group in the last few weeks is still lower than the average pre-pandemic peak mortality for this age group that we normally see during the winter months. This measure provides a useful indication of the impact of COVID-19 on overall death rates but cannot by itself indicate how many people have died from COVID-19. An important distinction to make is that people can die with COVID-19 as the direct cause, or COVID-19 may be a contributing factor alongside other health conditions, or the cause of death may be unrelated to COVID-19, even if the person has returned a positive test recently. The Ministry of Health has released updated information on this topic this morning. Covid-19 deaths reporting update
"Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. To isolate at their usual home. To not go out to work, and remain isolated, until they are contacted by their national contact tracing service, and they receive further direction. This direction applies to the following people: any employees or contractors of 2 employers: Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. any visitors to those workplaces in the last 14 days, and any people who ordinary live with those employees, or contractors, or visitors. If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health
Through the course of managing Omicron, we will be taking a phased approach. As case numbers grow, both testing and isolation approaches will change in response. Other countries have had to adapt their response in the middle of widespread outbreaks. We are setting out the changes ahead of large case numbers to give people a clearer idea of what to expect and what they need to do at each phase. Almost no country in the world has escaped Omicron and New Zealand is no exception. But where we can be an exception is how well we minimise the impact of the virus and protect our people from it. Vaccination remains our most effective weapon against the virus. The Omicron variant is markedly less severe than prior variants. One US report suggests the hospitalisation rate is 10 times less than the Delta variant. Its transmission and severity is also reduced by vaccination. So far, we have been focused on keeping Omicron out of the community for as long as possible while we roll out vaccinations to children and boosters for our adult population. Now that it is here, we expect case numbers to grow rapidly and put our health system under considerable pressure. Here are the three phases for Omicron: --- Section Separator --- Phase One is where we are now, and we are doing what we have successfully done with Delta — taking a ‘stamp it out’ approach. Broadly speaking, that includes the same contact tracing, isolation, and request that everyone who is symptomatic be tested at a community testing station or at a primary health provider. If you are required to isolate, you will receive advice and — if needed — support to do so. At this phase you will need to isolate for 14 days if you are a case, and 10 days if you are contact. Our objective is to keep cases as low as possible for as long as possible to allow people to be boosted and children to be vaccinated without Omicron being widespread. --- Section Separator --- In Phase Two, our objective is to slow the spread and protect our vulnerable communities. The system will be adjusted to focus much more on identifying those who are at greater risk of severe illness from Omicron — which will be a smaller percentage of cases. In Phase Two, we will reduce the isolation period for cases to 10 days and contacts to 7 days in line with best practice overseas. Household contacts will actively be managed by contact tracing services, with close contacts requiring a PCR test on day 5. A rapid escalation in case numbers and the resulting pressure on our resources will also require us to shift from identifying all infected individuals to being more targeted to those most at risk and those needed to keep the country going. Digital technology is used more in this phase. Cases will be notified via text message and be directed to an online self-investigation tool which will focus on high-risk exposures. Information will be provided via email and phone-based interviews will still take place where it’s required. Other forms of support will be available to those who need it. We will also change our current testing requirements for critical workers who are close contacts of cases. The prime focus of testing and tracing will be protecting this workforce and those most vulnerable to becoming severely unwell. Phase Two is where we will see more widespread use of the test to return-to-work policy where asymptomatic contacts in critical workforces can return a negative rapid antigen test in order to go to work. We will continue to manage testing of symptomatic people and Close Contacts with PCR testing but we will be enabling ‘test to return’ for asymptomatic critical workers who are close contacts of cases using rapid antigen tests (RATs). These are people like our healthcare workers and those working in food supply and infrastructure who are key to our response to COVID-19 and also in ensuring New Zealanders can continue to access the services they need. RATs will be integrated into our testing system at this phase and will work alongside PCR tests. They will be useful when the laboratories cannot provide PCR results within a useful time frame because of large volumes or because of transport delays. --- Section Separator --- At Phase Three, when cases are in the thousands, we will make further changes to contact tracing. The definition of contacts will change to household and household like contacts only. This will mean the highest risk contacts will need to isolate. Supported self-service, rapid antigen testing for diagnosing COVID-19 and a self-service tool to enable identification of high-risk contacts will be significant to respond to the high volumes of Omicron cases. Digital technologies will continue to be utilised at this phase, and people will be supported to self-notify Close Contacts. There will be continued support for those members of our community who are not digitally enabled. The majority of people will be supported and be able to self-manage and isolate at home; and clinical care will focus on anyone with high needs. Clinical care and welfare support will be targeted based on need. Through the course of Phase Two and Three, we have a test to return regime that will apply to our critical workforces, to keep them going through the outbreak. Our plan is simple — get boosted, wear a mask, follow basic hygiene rules we’ve become so familiar with and reduce contact as much as is practical. We have slowed the virus from entering the community and given households and businesses time to prepare. As always, it’s what each and everyone one of us can do as individuals that will make a difference. Omicron is now in more than 80 countries around the world. By delaying its arrival here we’ve had the time to kick off boosters, vaccinations for children, and prepare. I encourage everyone to use the coming days to take steps at home and with your family, neighbours and community to make a plan. Resources to help you do this are on the Unite Against Covid-19 website. Be prepared for COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
It also protects those most susceptible to getting sick like older people, those with low immunity, or those with some health conditions or disabilities. Across the motu we are seeing an increase in respiratory illnesses like colds and flu, in addition to COVID-19, put pressure on hospitals and local healthcare providers. Wearing a mask is an effective way to protect ourselves, and others as they help to stop infection spreading between people, particularly when we are close together, or indoors without good ventilation. Mask wearing is just one action New Zealanders can take to help protect themselves and others from illness this winter. Other actions include: being up to date with your COVID-19 vaccination having a flu vaccination staying home if you are unwell getting a COVID-19 test, and maintaining good hand hygiene. All these measures help reduce the spread of infections. If others have chosen not to, or can’t wear a mask, it’s still worth wearing one to protect yourself from catching a virus or infecting others around you. Wearing a mask also helps our kaimahi – or frontline healthcare teams – who are working hard to provide care for patients and our communities. By wearing a mask, you’re thinking of them and helping them to prevent people needing hospital and primary care. For the best protection, choose a good quality mask that fits you well and is comfortable to wear. Also remember to: sanitise your hands before you put one on hook the elastic bands behind your ears fit the mask well to your face along your nose and cheeks check everything is fitting well and there are no big gaps above, below or on the sides. Because it is possible to get COVID-19 again, even if you’ve had it previously, you should wear a mask – you’re not necessarily immune from getting it again. Let’s all work together to help everyone get through winter in good shape.
The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: oversight of all processes within the facilities provision of testing enforcement of rules logistical supply chains such as PPE coordination of relevant agencies standing up of new facilities continued oversight of repatriation flights accountability for those people who are in charge of each facility. “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: end to end induction process general security and safety of travellers provision of health services; and standardisation of procedures including COVID testing and screening. “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb.
The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: increased security for transferring returnees to managed isolation facilities the standardisation of procedures across all facilities The introduction of better information for returnees — from flight boarding through to entry into New Zealand and their exit from managed isolation. Better information to communities where those facilities are located. Strengthening of demand forecasting, reporting functions and coordination between agencies. Health responses include: more staff in facilities improved model of care — including taking into account issues like mental health and addiction issues more clinical oversight to ensure a consistent quality of service in facilities monitoring to ensure there is consistency across facilities. “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] --- Section Separator --- At departure airport. Check in for flight — information on which town passenger will complete managed isolation in is provided On flight to New Zealand — passengers informed by PA of the town they will complete managed isolation in (whole flight goes to same town). On landing at the international terminal: Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). On landing at domestic terminal: All passengers on the flight are transferred into buses airside. Passengers wear PPE and practise physical distancing on the bus journey. On arrival at managed isolation facility Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Routine during stay in a managed isolation facility Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Specific activities Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. On departure Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs. Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs.
The Government has widened access to free flu vaccines with an extra 800,000 New Zealanders eligible from Friday, July 1 2022. Children aged 3-12 years and people with serious mental health or addiction needs are now eligible for a free flu vaccine. From 28 June 2022, a second COVID-19 booster will be available 6 months after the first booster for older New Zealanders and other groups. A second COVID-19 booster is available for: everyone over the age of 50 and recommended for anyone over the age of 65 Māori and Pacific Peoples older than 50 people who are severely immunocompromised health, aged-care and disability workers over the age of 30. For those not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a two-dose primary course and one booster continues to provide very good protection. So, for those who haven’t had a first booster, please act now. The second booster dose should be offered 6 months after the previous dose, and postponed for 3 months after a COVID-19 infection. A second booster dose is not recommended for anyone who is pregnant and is healthy, including those with no underlying health conditions which could increase the risk of severe COVID-19. Staying up-to-date with the recommended COVID-19 vaccinations will continue to protect you from the risk of serious illness, hospitalisation or death. The Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and vaccines and will make further recommendations on eligibility criteria as necessary. The combination of Omicron and flu is making this winter more challenging than normal. The best thing New Zealanders can do to ensure they and their families don’t end up in hospital is to be up-to-date with their flu and COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. Anyone who is eligible for a second booster can get one without a prescription from a range of places, including: walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres booking online using BookMyVaccine (external link) calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . The Government is ramping up access to free flu vaccines and COVID-19 booster shots for those groups of people who are being admitted in increasing numbers to hospital. We are making free flu shots available to another 800,000 New Zealanders, including children, more of whom are having to go to hospital. Free flu shots are already available for everyone over the age of 65 and those at risk of becoming seriously ill or who have underlying conditions. This season we ordered 40% more vaccines. We have already seen more than 1 million New Zealanders get a flu shot, but with significant pressure on our health system we’re ramping up efforts to get as many people vaccinated as possible. In recent weeks we have seen a number of pre-school children hospitalised with the flu. We also know children can be transmitters of the flu to others in their family who are more at risk, so it makes sense to reduce transmission as much as we can. We also know that people with serious mental health or addiction needs can get seriously sick from the flu, which is why we are also extending flu vaccinations to this group this year. The extension of the free flu vaccination to more at-risk New Zealanders is just one of the actions we are taking to reduce pressure on our health system this winter. Flu shots are available by booking with GPs or local pharmacies. --- Section Separator --- The second COVID-19 booster is available for everyone 50 years and older, and health, aged-care and disability-care workers over the age of 30 once six months has passed since a previous dose. The second dose is recommended six months since their previous dose for: People aged 65 years and over. Māori and Pacific peoples aged 50 years and over. Residents of aged-care and disability-care facilities. Severely immunocompromised people who received a three-dose primary course and a fourth dose as a first booster (noting this would be a fifth dose for these people). People aged 16 years and over who have a medical condition that increases the risk of severe breakthrough COVID-19 illness. Disabled people aged 16 years and over with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities that increase the risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccinations, including the second booster, can be booked through Book My Vaccine (external link) or by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Find a walk-in vaccination centre near you If you have COVID-19 recently, you should delay your next scheduled COVID-19 vaccination for 3 months, however there is no need to defer your flu vaccination.
The Government is taking action to help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in schools and early childhood services. The country will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, with cases and hospitalisations remaining much lower than the peaks experienced earlier in the year. But with hospitals under pressure from flu and COVID-19, and numbers starting to creep up again, a suite of additional measures are being put in place to help reduce the spread. New Zealand to remain at Orange as case numbers start to creep up. 50 child-size masks made available to every Year 4 to 7 student in New Zealand. 20,000 to 30,000 masks provided a week to all other students and school staff. Extra funding to schools and early childhood services to support better ventilation over the winter months. Free flu vaccine made available to all children aged 3 to 12 years old. Reinfection advice amended. Anyone who experiences symptoms 29 days or longer after a previous infection should get a test and will need to isolate if they test positive. Moving back to Red is unnecessary at the moment. We can continue to manage the virus at Orange, but are putting in place a range of additional measures to help manage a recent rise in cases. Yesterday the 7-day rolling average of COVID-19 cases was 5,808 and there were 395 people in hospital and 8 in ICU. For comparison when we moved out of Red in April the rolling average of cases was nearly 10,000 a day and there were over 500 people in hospital including 28 in ICU. However, cases are ticking up and our health system is under pressure so we are putting in place a range of additional measures to help manage the virus over the coming winter months. The first thing we have already announced is the extension of the free flu vaccine to all children aged 3 to 12 and the provision of a second COVID-19 booster for everyone over the age of 50. Getting vaccinated is the number one thing New Zealanders can do to help relieve pressure on our health system this winter. We are seeing an overrepresentation of unvaccinated people in hospital admissions so we strongly urge everyone to make sure they are up to date with their vaccines. We are also updating our advice around reinfection and are now asking anyone experiencing COVID-19 symptoms 29 days or longer following their initial infection to test. Should they test positive they will need to isolate for 7 days. This is a change from earlier advice which was that people would not need to re-test if they had tested positive for COVID-19 within the past 90 days and is based on the latest international evidence and the need to isolate quickly people with reinfections. However Household Contacts who have had COVID-19 within 90 days will not need to isolate, unless they are symptomatic. There is clear updated advice on what they should do to reduce risks to themselves and others. While reinfections are low at the moment they are likely to increase. The B.5 variant of Omicron is predicted to become the dominant strain in the country in the coming weeks and is a different variant to what most New Zealanders caught the first time around. With these measures, alongside additional support in schools and early childhood services, the Government is stepping up our response to help reduce the spread of COVID. We always said this was going to be a challenging winter and we need everyone to play their part to help us get through safely. The Government is also providing a range of measures to help schools reduce the risk of winter illness spreading. The Ministry of Education has already secured a supply of 10 million special child-sized masks and intends to have them ready for distribution at the start of Term 3. This means there will be 50 child-size masks provided for every child in Years 4 to 7 in schools and kura throughout the country from now until the end of 2022. This is in addition to the adult-sized mask offered to all school children from Year 8 and up. Around 20,000 to 30,000 masks are already being distributed to students and staff every week across the country. The Government will also be providing additional funding this winter to encourage schools and centre-based early childhood services to maintain healthy levels of heating and ventilation to help reduce colds, flu and COVID from spreading. Good ventilation over winter can lead to some heat loss and higher heating bills. The winter energy payments will help reassure schools and services that they can balance heating and ventilation, without unaffordable energy bills. The Government does not usually explicitly fund energy costs for services, but the COVID-19 pandemic is a unique situation. The scientific evidence is clear that good ventilation helps prevent the spread of COVID-19. In addition, the Government has already provided every school in New Zealand with CO2 monitors to help them identify spaces where maintaining good ventilation is proving more challenging and bought more than 8,000 air cleaners to help improve the ventilation in these areas. Every school has access to more air cleaners at no cost if they need them to help supplement their approach to ventilation this winter.
At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1
With New Zealand expecting to see Omicron cases rise during the winter, the Orange traffic light setting remains appropriate for managing this stage of the outbreak. While daily cases numbers have flattened nationally, they are again beginning to increase in the Northern region. Hospitalisation rates have also increased slightly over the past month. In addition, the latest COVID-19 modelling indicates that under current conditions, there is a likelihood of a secondary wave of cases appearing. The COVID-19 Protection Framework (CPF) has effectively managed the Omicron outbreak at Orange. By following public health advice to remain at that setting, we can maintain some protections while ensuring businesses can continue to operate Everyone should continue to be cautious and think about the health of others, especially those who are immunocompromised or at higher risk of long-term health impacts from infection. Please also get boosted, if you have not already. Self-isolation, vaccination and wearing a face mask continue to be our main defences against COVID-19. You will need to continue wearing a face mask in many indoor settings. It is encouraging to see case numbers remain steady, but there are other factors at play that tell us to remain cautious and not yet move to Green. These include the arrival of new strains of colds and flus, which will add to the workloads of our already busy hospitals. The next review of the traffic light settings will be in late June. Life at Orange Wear a face mask
Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2
A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported as 13,344. The correct figure is 9,318, which is around the same level as case numbers reported for the past 3 days. A corrected statement is being published on the Ministry website and updated case figures for individual districts are also being published now: COVID-19: Current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) The number of imported cases — people who have recently travelled overseas — was also affected by the same error, and the the correct figure is 275, not the 390 incorrectly published earlier today. The computer glitch has now been corrected.
While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery. We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.
Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB]
Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said.
We’ve taken a careful and staged approach to reopening our borders to ensure we aren’t overwhelmed with an influx of COVID-19 cases. Our strategy has worked and as a result, it’s safe to lift pre-departure test requirements much sooner than planned. We had intended to remove the requirement for travellers to have a pre-departure test by 31 July. But with cases continuing to decline despite over 387,000 arrivals since borders reopened, there is evidence this measure can now be lifted. Around 90% of international arrivals undertake their required testing once they are in the country, with only a 2-3% positivity rate. So we don’t anticipate a significant increase in border cases once the requirement is lifted. In addition, the challenges pre-departure tests pose to visitors are now no longer outweighed by the public health benefits. Factors such as the availability of and cost of getting a test are increasingly becoming a barrier for people intending to travel here, especially as other countries wind back testing availability or the requirement for a test on entry themselves. While the pre-departure test requirements are being removed, we are keeping in place a set of border surveillance measures for detecting any possible new variants of COVID-19. In order to understand what new strains of COVID are arriving at the border, travellers will still be required to self-test on Day 0/1 and again on Day 5/6. If the result of either test is positive, they must then get a PCR test. The end of pre-departure testing is just one of a number of changes that are being made to the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order to ensure our public health measures remain proportionate to the risk COVID-19 presents to the community. Also from Monday evening, passengers transiting through New Zealand will no longer need to be vaccinated, nor be required to complete a New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Travellers with COVID-19-like symptoms (for example hayfever) will also be able to choose between showing a negative COVID test, or a certificate from a health professional ― stating that they are unlikely to have COVID-19 ― before travelling. Another change will see the maximum penalty for breaching the Air Border Order’s vaccination requirement reduced from $4,000 to $1,000. These changes represent important progress in our ongoing management of COVID-19 and our reconnecting strategy. More information about travelling to New Zealand
Due to winter illnesses putting pressure on primary care providers, the Ministry of Health would like to remind employers that they can consider the text messages it sends to people positive with COVID-19 and their household contacts, as proof of needing time off work. Texts from 2328 or 2648 are sent to a COVID-19 positive person and any household contacts they identify. The first text confirms their COVID-19 positive test and the need to isolate, and the second confirms they can leave isolation and return to work if they feel well. Household contacts receive a text saying they are free to leave isolation if their day 7 RAT test is negative. Employers needing proof of staff taking time off work due to COVID-19 illness, or being the household contact, can use these text messages as reliable evidence rather than asking for a traditional GP ‘medical certificate’, which creates additional work for general practice at a particularly busy time of year. COVID-19: Isolating from others | health.govt.nz (external link)
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. --- Section Separator --- The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: recovered charges do not exceed the actual costs of managed isolation and quarantine no upfront payment would be required there would be flexibility in how people could pay. Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) --- Section Separator --- The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: $3,100 per person in a room $950 for each additional adult, and $475 for each additional child sharing the room. The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Any New Zealander, who either: leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. Any temporary visa holder, unless: they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Family members travelling or isolating with people who do not have to pay charges (unless they are entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker). New Zealand citizens deported to New Zealand. Diplomats and official government representatives. Any person travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the accused in the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees and protected persons for their first entry into New Zealand after the charges come into force. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. --- Section Separator --- Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon.
Border workers will no longer be required to undergo COVID-19 testing under New Zealand’s public health response to the pandemic, from 11.59pm Thursday 30 June, as part of ongoing adjustments to the pandemic response. Early in the pandemic, when the focus was keeping out cases of COVID-19, ongoing testing of border workers was crucial, as they were a possible gateway for COVID-19 to enter the community, presenting a significant risk to the country. However, as the pandemic moves into its third year, the response strategy has shifted to minimisation and protection, and with widespread community transmission infection in border workers is no longer seen as a greater risk than infection in the general population. The Ministry of Health recognises that through regular testing, border workers have played a critical role in the country’s public health response and the Ministry would like to thank them for their continued support and commitment to the health and wellbeing of New Zealanders. The revocation of the Required Testing Order (RTO), which provided the legal basis for the testing, is part of a wider move to ensure Aotearoa’s public health measures remain proportionate to the risk that COVID-19 presents to the community.
People who are at high risk of getting very sick from a COVID-19 infection will soon be eligible to receive a second booster. This follows a recommendation from the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group that a second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at risk of serious illness from COVID-19 and with a gap of 6 months from their previous booster. The vast majority of these people become eligible from July. A booster is important for our most vulnerable as we move into the winter peak. Several hundred thousand people will be eligible, which includes: our older population residents of aged care facilities disability care facilities aged 16 years and over severely immunocompromised people aged 16 years and over and who have received a three-dose primary course and a first booster. Final decisions on the make-up of this group will be made within the next 2 weeks. The Government is working urgently to enable the second booster to be made available in the same way as the primary course and booster — that is, without needing to access a doctor. This will be more equitable and make the roll-out to our at-risk groups more effective. The Medicines Act will be amended to do this, with the new policy in effect from mid-June, in good time for the vast majority of eligible people. If you are eligible but have had COVID-19, you will need to wait at least 3 months after your infection before having an additional dose. Based on current advice, for those who are not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a 2-dose primary course and a booster dose provides very good and lasting protection, which is why we can be more targeted in the rollout of the second booster. We know a booster helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. If you have not had your first booster yet, it is not too late to get it in time for the winter season. The Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines and will make further recommendations if necessary.
Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date.
Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: The returnee is isolated in their room, whilst a dedicated quarantine transfer vehicle is sent from the quarantine facility. The vehicle is crewed by a driver and an assistant in PPE. Upon arrival of the transfer vehicle at the managed isolation facility, the returnee(s) is moved to the vehicle, with luggage placed in a trailer. Upon arrival at the Quarantine facility, the returnee(s) is processed by facility and health staff in PPE. Following departure from the managed isolation facility, the positive case(s)’s room is sealed for ten days, after which time it is given a deep clean. I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made.
6,984 new community cases 417 cases in hospital 44,943 active community cases 12,627 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,528 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,984 community cases and 417 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,422. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 8 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7 days. Our traditional winter illnesses are circulating in the community along with COVID-19. This is putting significant pressure on all parts of the health system. Health services have been planning for a challenging winter and are working regionally to manage capacity and demand, prioritise urgent care and deliver as much planned care as possible. It helps our health services if everyone does their bit to help us get through winter. The best thing New Zealanders can do to ensure they and their families do not end up in hospital is to be up-to-date with their flu and COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. That is why the Government this week announced access to free flu vaccines had been widened to an additional 800,000 New Zealanders and second COVID-19 boosters would be available for older New Zealanders. We want to remind people to keep up good public health habits: wear a mask physically distance practise good hand hygiene and do not go out if you are unwell but get tested and self-report the result – whether positive or negative – on My COVID Record. This helps us to understand the spread of COVID-19 and where to direct our public health resources. We also urge whānau to develop a winter plan so family members know what to do if they become unwell. And to get a Winter Wellness Kit together which might include painkillers, a thermometer, tissues, cold and flu medications, enough food and household items for a few days, and a good stock of the regular medicines you or your whanau will need. The Ministry would like to acknowledge the hard work of health workers across the motu, particularly at this time of significant strain on the system. The work you do is important and valued. We urge all New Zealanders, if they do face delays in accessing health services, to be patient and kind to their local health workers. Often delays are due to health professionals treating someone more seriously ill first. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
8,182 new community cases 373 cases in hospital 48,236 active community cases 15,020 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,519 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,182 community cases, 373 current hospitalisations, and 13 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,893 — last Wednesday, it was 7,308. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19 who have died in the past 5 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,185 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 2 were from Canterbury, and 1 each from Bay of Plenty, Tairāwhiti, Hawke’s Bay, Hutt Valley, Capital and Coast, Nelson Marlborough, and Southern. One person was in their 40s, 2 were in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were female and 7 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,297 new community cases 42,517 active community cases --- Section Separator --- Note: Due to a technical issue, hospitalisation, death and testing numbers are currently unavailable. Today’s statement will be updated as soon as this information becomes available. Today we are reporting 6,297 community cases. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,075 – last Friday it was 6,850. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,395 new community cases 689 cases in hospital 64,912 active community cases 12,714 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,183 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,395 community cases, 689 current hospitalisations, and 17 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,279. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 13 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the steady increase in COVID-19 positive hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in hospitalisations also emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help New Zealand get through winter in good shape. In particular, you should: stay home if you are unwell take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on MyCovidRecord (external link) isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. Now is the time to ensure you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations, including those who are eligible for a second booster dose, as well as having a flu vaccination, which is free for many people. Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place — such as mask-wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you are up to date with your vaccines, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. If you have COVID-19 When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
4,413 new community cases 352 cases in hospital 41,433 active community cases 8,456 total RATs reported 2,157 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. All these people died within the past 5 days. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,325 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Bay of Plenty, and 1 from Canterbury. One person was in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 1 was in their 80s, and 1 was aged over 90. Of these people, 2 were women and 3 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
5,554 new community cases 368 cases in hospital 40,365 active community cases 12,405 total RATs reported 3,751 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 continues to circulate in the community and we have also started to see the impact of winter respiratory illnesses, like flu, which are putting additional pressure on our health system. We have been planning for a challenging winter and are working with our regional colleagues to manage capacity and demand, prioritise urgent care, and deliver as much planned care as possible. We need everyone to do their bit to help us get through winter. We would like to encourage everyone to get their flu vaccine this year, which can help protect against 4 different strains of the virus and reduce the need for hospitalisation. We also want to encourage everyone to: get vaccinated against COVID-19 wear a mask physically distance practise good hand hygiene not go out if you are unwell but get tested and self-report the result – whether positive or negative – on My COVID Record. This helps us to understand the spread of COVID-19 and where to direct our public health resources. How to report your RAT result Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,359 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 1 person was from Northland, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region, 2 from Canterbury, and 2 from Southern. Two were in their 60s, 5 were in their 70s, 1 was in their 80s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were women and 4 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends, and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
5,435 new community cases 377 cases in hospital 38,138 active community cases 11,919 total RATs reported 4,247 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. Twelve of these deaths occurred this month and 3 deaths were in April and May 2022. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,374 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 3 people were from Northland, 5 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region, 1 from Canterbury, 1 from South Canterbury, and 2 from Southern. Two were in their 30s, 1 was in their 50s, 1 was in their 60s, 3 were in their 70s, 6 were in their 80s, and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were women and 8 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
4,869 new community cases 370 cases in hospital 36,712 active community cases 11,764 total RATs reported 3,095 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7days, apart from 1 death on 11 May and 1 death on 23 April. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,390 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 2 were from Northland, 6 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato; 1 was from Taranaki; 2 were from the Wellington region; 3 were from Canterbury; and 1 was from South Canterbury. One person was in their 40s; 1 was in their 60s; 4 were in their 70s; 8 were in their 80s; and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 12 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,570 new community cases 425 cases in hospital 56,146 active community cases 17,429 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,579 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,570 community cases, 425 hospitalisations and 32 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 8,024 — last Wednesday it was 7,533. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 32 people with COVID-19. The total number of deaths is up by 31 from yesterday as we have removed a case which had been previous reported twice. This case was initially reported on 10 March. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 6 weeks, since 5 April. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,017 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 2 people were from Northland, 9 from the Auckland region, 2 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Taranaki, 1 from Tairawhiti, 4 from MidCentral, 2 from Hawke’s Bay, 3 from the Wellington region, 1 from Nelson-Marlborough, 4 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was in their 20s, 4 people were in their 40s, 2 in their 50s, 4 in their 60s, 9 in their 70s, 9 in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 10 were women and 22 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,091 new community cases 411 cases in hospital 55,852 active community cases 16,961 total RATs in the last 24 hours 4,736 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,091 community cases, 411 hospitalisations and 5 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,981 — last Thursday it was 7,533. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19, all of whom have died in the past 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,022 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 16. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 from Bay of Plenty, and 3 from Southern. 1 person was in their seventies, and 4 people were in their 80s. Of these people, 4 were women and 1 was a man. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,870 new community cases 393 cases in hospital 48,544 active community cases 14,405 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,742 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,870 community cases, 393 current hospitalisations, and 13 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,937 — last Thursday, it was 7,095. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19 — 11 deaths were in the past 48 hours and 2 were in January this year. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,197 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. One previously announced death has been removed from our totals, as it was reclassified as not a COVID-19 case. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 4 were from Canterbury, 2 from Southern, and 1 each from Taranaki, Hawke’s Bay, and Wellington. Four people were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were male and 6 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
4,024 new community cases 391 cases in hospital 34,554 active community cases 7,678 total RATs reported 1,980 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- We are continuing to remind people of the importance of not only protecting against COVID-19 but also protecting against influenza and other winter ills and chills. Much of the advice is the same: Stay at home if you are unwell. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, take a COVID-19 test. If your symptoms worsen, or you are concerned about the health of yourself or someone you’re caring for, call Healthline on 0800 611 116 or your doctor/healthcare provider. Calls to Healthline are free and the service operates 24/7 with interpreters available. Wear a face mask. It is a requirement to wear a face mask when on public transport, in indoor settings like retail stores and supermarkets, when in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. Maintain good hand hygiene by washing and drying your hands thoroughly or using alcohol-based hand sanitiser. Sneeze or cough into your elbow or a tissue. Avoid touching your face, dispose of tissues in a waste bin immediately, and wash or sanitise your hands. Develop a winter plan for your whānau so family members know what to do if people become unwell. Familiarise yourself with what is expected of you by your employer if you become sick yourself. Get your Winter Wellness Kit together , for example painkillers, a thermometer, tissues, enough food and household items for a few days, and a good stock of the regular medicines you or your whānau will need. Honey is helpful to have on hand for a sore throat. Eat well and stay active. Healthy eating and physical activity play an important part in our overall health and wellbeing, including our bodies’ ability to fight off illness. Getting a good night’s sleep also helps. Make sure you and your whānau are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations and have had a flu vaccination. COVID-19 vaccinations are free for everyone and flu vaccination is free for many people. It is also a good time to check that children are up to date with all their routine free vaccinations especially measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR). Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,415 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 were from the Auckland region, 2 from the Bay of Plenty, 2 from Wellington, 2 from Canterbury, and 1 from South Canterbury. One person was in their 40s, 1 was in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 4 were in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were women and 3 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,800 new community cases 401 cases in hospital 56,200 active community cases 15,048 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,786 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,800 community cases, 401 hospitalisations and 17 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 8,032 – last Friday it was 7,548. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,039 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from the Wellington region, 2 were from Northland, 2 were from Canterbury, 2 were from the Southern region, and 1 each from Waikato, Tairāwhiti, Mid Central, Hawke’s Bay, and Nelson Marlborough. 1 person was in their 50s, 1 was in their 60s, 4 were in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 13 were women and 4 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
5,630 new community cases 362 cases in hospital 34,124 active community cases 12,810 total RATs reported 3,017 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,630 community cases, 362 current hospitalisations, and 17 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,878 – last Tuesday it was 5,983. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. 14 deaths were recorded in June, with 1 death recorded in April and 2 in March. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,432 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 9 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from the Bay of Plenty, 2 from Taranaki, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. 1 person was in 50s, 2 were in their 60s, 3 were in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. 1 was a child aged under 10. Of these people, 10 were male and 7 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,995,827 first doses (95%) 3,910,251 second doses (93%) 36,582 third primary doses 974,784 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 509,044 first doses (89%) 480,298 second doses (84%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 275,641 first doses (96%) 266,967 second doses (93%) --- Section Separator --- 8 cases in hospital: 5 in North Shore 2 in Auckland 1 in Middlemore --- Section Separator --- 24 new community cases: 2 in Northland 16 in Auckland 1 in Waikato 5 in Lakes 47 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
5,285 new community cases 300 cases in hospital 33,699 active community cases 11,334 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,791 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today 31 previously reported deaths have been re- classified as unrelated to COVID-19. These deaths occurred more than 28 days after these people were reported as COVID-19 cases and were initially thought to be COVID-19 related, however their formal cause of death classification has been deemed as unrelated to COVID-19. Therefore, our new total of publicly reported COVID-19 deaths is 1,431. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 12 people with COVID-19. All of these deaths occurred since 17 June. The 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from Northland, 1 was from the Auckland region, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from MidCentral, 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 was from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. 2 people were in their 50s, 7 were in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were male and 5 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. On the Matariki public holiday tomorrow, 24 June 2022, there will be no update. There will be the usual 1pm updates published over the long weekend on Saturday and Sunday, and Saturday’s update will include the figures for Friday. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
6,000 new community cases 363 cases in hospital 53,964 active community cases 11,160 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,197 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,000 community cases, 363 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,712 — last Monday it was 7,702. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,064 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 was from the Auckland region, 2 were from Taranaki, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Wellington and 2 were from Canterbury. One person was in their 30s, 3 were in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were female and 1 was male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,435 new community cases 327 cases in hospital 52,527 active community cases 17,264 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,326 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,435 community cases, 327 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,507 — last Tuesday it was 7,795. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19, all of whom died in the past 4 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,079 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Taranaki, 2 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Nelson-Marlborough, 4 were from Canterbury and 3 were from Southern. One person was in their 40s, 2 were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 9 were female and 6 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,150 new community cases 368 cases in hospital 51,133 active community cases 16,430 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,501 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,150 community cases, 368 hospitalisations and 11 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,308 — last Wednesday, it was 8,024. We are today reporting our first case of the Omicron subvariant BA.2.12.1 in a community case, without a clear link to the border, in Hawke’s Bay from a test result returned on 10 May 2022. This Omicron subvariant is prevalent in the USA and has been detected at our border for many weeks — there have been 29 imported cases reported since April, so its movement into the community is not unexpected. Emerging data suggests BA.2.12.1 is marginally more transmissible than the subvariants currently circulating in Aotearoa New Zealand. Our genomic surveillance (genomes and wastewater) remains in place to study any new variants and track their spread. The public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants are assessed to be appropriate for managing subvariants present in our community and no changes are required. Meanwhile, the Omicron BA.4 and/or BA.5 subvariants have been detected in wastewater samples at Rosedale on Auckland’s North Shore and in Gisborne. The presence of these subvariants in the community is also not unexpected. The BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants are being monitored by the World Health Organization. To date, compared to BA.2, there is clinical data to suggest increased transmissibility but no data suggesting it causes more severe illness. As with all variants of Omicron, public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Wear a mask indoors, stay home if you are unwell, get tested if you are symptomatic, and get vaccinated. The vast majority of recently sequenced cases in New Zealand continue to be of the Omicron BA.2 sub-variant, with a small number of cases with the BA.1 sub-variant. We are continuing to monitor the transmission of all variants across the country and internationally. These latest detections emphasise the importance of continued wastewater testing, as increasingly ESR sequencing is able to refine what its testing detects. The sequencing can determine that either BA.4 or BA.5 subvariant or both may be present but is not able to be more specific at this stage. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today are for people who have died in the past 10 days, apart from 1 death on 6 May and 1 death on 11 April. Delays in reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,086 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 10. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 3 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. One person was aged under 10, 1 was in their 30s, 1 was in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s, and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were female and 5 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,591 new community cases 355 cases in hospital 49,645 active community cases 15,586 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,814 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,591 community cases, 355 hospitalisations and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,095 — last Thursday, it was 7,981. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,102 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 7 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Canterbury, 3 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Lakes, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, and 1 was from Southern. Two people were in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s, and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 9 were female and 7 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
5,549 new community cases 383 cases in hospital 35,900 active community cases 9,146 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,346 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,472 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from MidCentral, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from the Hutt Valley, 3 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from South Canterbury. 2 people were in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 4 were over 90. Of these people, 5 were male and 6 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
6,862 new community cases 350 cases in hospital 48,706 active community cases 14,198 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,365 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,862 community cases, 350 current hospitalisations and 25 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,960 – last Friday, it was 8,032. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 25 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,127 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 5 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Northland, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Hawke's Bay, 9 were from Canterbury, 2 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Midcentral, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, and 2 were from Southern. One person was in their 30s, 3 people were in their 40s, 4 were in their 50s, 2 people were in their 60s, 4 were in their 70s, 6 were in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 13 were female and 11 were male. The gender of 1 person was not reported. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,028 new community cases 383 cases in hospital 38,341 active community cases 14,817 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,311 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,028 community cases, 383 current hospitalisations, and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,480 — last Tuesday it was 4,878. The increase in case numbers today is not unusual after a long weekend. It will take more time before we are able to determine if this is part of a trend. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred within the past 7 days. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,488 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 2 were from Waikato, 2 were from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from Wairarapa, 1 from Wellington, 2 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from the Southern region. One person was aged between 10 and 19 years, 3 were in their 70s, 6 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 11 were male and 5 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer App is evolving to better reflect the current phase of the pandemic response. The changes made to the app will better reflect its current use and contribution. It will still work, but the registration feature will be deleted, along with any personal information shared by people when they first registered for the app. Contact tracers can still use other data sources in the app if needed. NZ COVID Tracer app evolving | Ministry of Health (external link)
7,829 new community cases 395 cases in hospital 40,640 active community cases 13,847 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,772 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,829 community cases, 395 current hospitalisations, and 15 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,808 — last Wednesday it was 4,873. The higher number of cases in the last 2 days, compared to last week, is not unusual after a long weekend. It will take more time before we are able to determine if this is part of a trend. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred within the past 9 days. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,503 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Lakes, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 was from Nelson Marlborough, 1 was from Canterbury, 1 was from West Coast, and 2 were from the Southern region. One person was in their 20s, 1 was in their 50s, 5 were in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 5 were over 90. Of these people, 6 were male and 9 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
6,232 new community cases 390 cases in hospital 47,933 active community cases 12,563 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,038 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,232 community cases, 390 current hospitalisations, and 14 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,850 — last Friday, it was 6,960 Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Thirteen people have died in the past 8 days, while we are also reporting the historical death of a case late in 2020. This case had recovered at the time of death but was recently classified as having COVID-19 as a contributory cause of their death. This will continue to happen occasionally due to the timing of the mortality coding process, particularly in instances where deaths where COVID-19 is a contributory cause, and the death falls outside of the 28 day period of testing positive for COVID. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,210 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 was from Northland; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Taranaki; 1 from Whanganui; 1 from the Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough; 4 from Canterbury; 1 from South Canterbury and 1 from Southern. Two people were in their 60s; 3 in 70s; 3 in their 80s and 6 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 10 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. We are today reporting 4 cases of the Omicron subvariant BA.5 and 1 case of the subvariant BA.4 in the community, all based on whole genome sequencing of tests. These are the first BA.4 and BA.5 cases reported in the community, with no clear link to the border. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,423 new community cases 411 cases in hospital 42,782 active community cases 13,404 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,692 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,423 community cases and 411 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,114. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 19 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7 days. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,522 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 2 were from Northland 3 were from the Auckland region 3 were from Waikato 1 was from Bay of Plenty 1 was from Hawke’s Bay 2 were from the Wellington region 1 was from Nelson-Marlborough 4 were from Canterbury 2 were from Southern. Two people were in their 50s; 3 were in their 60s; 1 was in their 70s; 6 were in their 80s; and 7 were aged over 90. Of these people, 11 were women and 8 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
5,836 new community cases 403 cases in hospital 48,153 active community cases 10,526 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,261 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,836 new community cases, 403 current hospitalisations, and 5 deaths in the past 3 days. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,881 — last Monday, it was 7,712. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,154 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Taranaki, 1 from Canterbury, and 1 was the Southern region. One person was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 1 was over 90. Of these people, 3 were male and 2 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,436 new community cases 389 cases in hospital 48,179 active community cases 17,205 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,099 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,436 new community cases, 389 current hospitalisations, and 18 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,885 — last Monday, it was 7,507. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 18 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,172 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from Northland, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Taranaki, 2 were from Midcentral, 2 from Nelson Marlborough, 3 from Canterbury, 2 from West Coast and 2 from the Southern region. One person was in their 50s, 2 were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 10 were male and 8 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
10,205 new community cases 33 new cases identified at the border 734 cases in hospital 1,634 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 18,818 total RATs in the last 24 hours 866 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,205 community cases, 734 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, today's seven-day rolling average is 13,218, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Monday was 16,102. A reminder that from 11:59pm tonight, there is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. As restrictions around the pass ease, it is important for people to continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you’re feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whanau is to get vaccinated if you haven’t already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whanau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 3 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 405 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 20. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one person was from the Auckland region, three from Waikato, two from Lakes, two from the Wellington region, and one from Southern. One person was in their 50s, one in their 60s, one in their 70s, two in their 80s, and four were over 90. Five were men and four were women. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,498 new community cases 487 cases in hospital 49,298 active community cases 9,555 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,035 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,498 community cases and 487 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,046. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 8 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 2 days. A second COVID-19 booster is now available for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 – a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. In addition, a second booster is available for all people aged 50 years and over and health, aged care and disability workers aged 30 years and over. Full eligibility criteria for second boosters | Ministry of Health (external link) Free flu shots are now available to all children aged between 3 and 12, as well as anyone with serious mental health and addiction needs. This is in addition to Māori and Pacific people aged 55 and over, anyone else aged 65 and over, pregnant people and those with certain underlying conditions. Full list of conditions | Ministry of Health (external link) People can book their flu vaccine at a pharmacy. Book a COVID-19 vaccine: through Book My Vaccine (external link) call the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
9,629 new community cases 493 cases in hospital 50,698 active community cases 15,779 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,529 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- The rise in COVID-19 cases today is not unexpected as New Zealand moves towards the winter peak for respiratory illness, including COVID-19. In addition, it is not unusual for reported cases to rise following a weekend. It is encouraging that people are uploading their test results in My COVID Record, and the Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand would like to remind people to continue to do this. This is also a timely reminder for those eligible to get their booster vaccinations, and for those not yet fully immunised to start and/or complete their COVID-19 vaccination course. People should also get an influenza vaccination if they are not yet immunised. People are also reminded to stay home if they are unwell, regardless of their COVID-19 test result. Staying home when unwell is one of the most important public health measures to prevent transmission of all respiratory illnesses. The Omicron subvariant BA.2.75 has been detected in New Zealand for the first time. The Ministry regularly assesses the latest evidence on variants to ensure that our public health settings are appropriate. At this stage, there is no evidence that BA.2.75 requires a shift in public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants. On Friday afternoon, analysis of whole genome sequencing confirmed 2 cases in New Zealand with BA.2.75. Before testing positive for COVID-19, both cases had recently travelled from India, where this subvariant has been detected. BA.2.75 is a recently identified second-generation subvariant of BA.2, the dominant variant circulating in New Zealand at this stage. BA.2.75 has only been recently identified as distinct from BA.2, and evidence on its transmissibility, immune evasiveness and severity is still preliminary and emerging. We do know BA.2.75 has some characteristics that look like they may enhance its ability to evade immunity, similar to the BA.4 and BA.5 Omicron subvariants, and there is some early evidence overseas that it may be slightly more transmissible than BA.2. There is no current evidence that it leads to more severe disease, although assessing the evidence is at a very early stage. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 14 April. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,591 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 5 were from Auckland region, 3 were from Waikato, 4 from Bay of Plenty, 1 was from Lakes, 1 was from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 4 were from Wellington region, 4 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. Three were in their 40s, 5 were in their 70s, 7 were in their 80s, and 9 were aged over 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 10 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
10,290 new community cases 522 cases in hospital 53,110 active community cases 15,984 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,790 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,290 community cases and 522 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,591. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 12 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 1 July. During the past 2 weeks, there has been a significant increase in COVID-19 cases on top of a rise in seasonal colds, flu and other respiratory illnesses. Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. Masking up is particularly important when you are going to be around our more vulnerable members of the community, such as in healthcare settings and in aged residential care. The more layers of protection we put in place around the vulnerable, such as mask wearing, having our vaccinations, and staying away from them when sick, the less risk there is of them getting seriously ill. If you are visiting loved ones in hospital or aged residential care, our request is to, please, be patient and kind to each other and staff. They are working as hard as they can to protect some of the more vulnerable members of the community. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. Even if you are fully vaccinated, or have had viruses in the past, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. We are continuing to urge people to mask up on public transport, in indoor settings like retail stores and supermarkets, in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
10,710 new community cases 554 cases in hospital 56,058 active community cases 16,225 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,599 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,710 community cases and 554 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,013. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 28 June. Today’s new cases of COVID-19 show the recent rise in case numbers remains steady. We are continuing to keep our response to the current community outbreak of COVID-19 under review and will adapt it as the outbreak and pandemic evolve, and as part of our resurgence planning. With the school holidays starting on Friday many people will have plans to get away and relax with whānau and friends — if you are going away, please remember to have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a Household Contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a household contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate (providing you are well enough to drive), taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home — such as maintaining social distance (distancing yourself from others), wearing your mask correctly, making sure you keep your hands clean and dry and using self-service petrol stations if you need to refuel your vehicle. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to travel to isolate at your home. So, it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying if you need to do so. As with all variants of Omicron, the public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Stay home if you’re unwell, get tested if you’re symptomatic, wash and dry your hands, cover coughs and sneezes, wear a mask in crowded or poorly ventilated indoor public settings and get vaccinated. For guidance if you or someone you know tests positive or becomes a Household Contact, visit the Ministry of Health website. If you become unwell or test positive for COVID-19 while travelling | health.govt.nz (external link) For more information on mask use at Orange, visit the Unite against COVID-19 website. When to wear a mask (This update is provided each Thursday) Of the 76 people in Auckland and Counties Manukau hospitals confirmed with SARI illnesses (severe acute respiratory infection) COVID-19 was the cause of infection in 24 percent of those tested for COVID-19, and Influenza was the cause in 52 percent of those tested for influenza. Other causes of infection were rhinoviruses and enteroviruses. The current rate of hospitalisations in Auckland and Counties Manukau is in line with rates seen in recent years. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
Over the past 2 days, there have been: 10,191 new community cases 371 cases in hospital 43,398 active community cases In the last 24 hours, there have been: 10,442 total RATs reported 2,059 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Today’s reported deaths include 7 recorded yesterday and 7 recorded today. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,243 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 10. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 1 was from Northland; 2 were from the Auckland region; 1 was from Waikato; 1 was from Taranaki; 5 were from Canterbury and 4 were from the Southern region. Two people were in their 50s; 1 was in their 60s; 4 were in their 70s; 5 were in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were men and 6 were women. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
13,344 new community cases 587 cases in hospital 58,170 active community cases 16,101 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,506 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 13,344 community cases and 587 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,313. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. The majority (18) of these deaths occurred in the current month; 4 others occurred in May and June. There is 1 death from January last year now being reported following the cause of death assessment now being completed.  In some instances it can take some time for the full clinical assessments to be finalised. Today’s new cases of COVID-19 show a further rise in case numbers. We are continuing to keep our response to the current community outbreak of COVID-19 under review and will adapt it as the outbreak and pandemic evolve, and as part of our resurgence planning. As every parent well knows, winter means cold weather but also more days indoors where our tamariki can more easily pick up and pass on germs, colds and flu. It is normal for children to have 8-10 viral illnesses each year, which will likely include coughs, runny noses and intermittent fevers.  But with so many respiratory illnesses circulating, the Ministry is encouraging New Zealanders to pay extra attention to their children’s health, and their own, over the coldest months of the year. Here are some winter wellness tips to help keep children healthy: When they’re unwell, keep them at home to give them the best chance to rest and recover, and reduce the spread of infections on to others. If children have COVID-19 symptoms like a fever, cough, sore throat and headache — rapid antigen test them. Encourage good hygiene — help them to wash their hands regularly and show them how to sneeze or cough into their elbow or a tissue. This will help stop the spread of germs. A sick child who is still eating and drinking well, can be watched at home until they are feeling better. To help avoid serious illness, ensure children are up to date with their vaccinations like measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); flu; chicken pox; whooping cough; and for over 5-year-olds, their COVID-19 vaccine. Ventilate your home by opening windows and doors throughout the day to increase fresh air flow. Provide children with healthy food and fresh water to help maintain good health and wellbeing. Encourage them to be active, especially outside, to help maintain good health and wellbeing. Encourage your children to wear a mask if they are old enough. Finally, support children to get enough sleep. Following these tips not just for children but for all of us can help us all fight off seasonal illnesses and get through the next few months in good shape. Stay well this winter, Aotearoa! Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
7,050 new community cases 361 cases in hospital 42,233 active community cases 13,413 total RATs reported 2,825 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. Twelve of these people have died in the past 4 days, and 12 have died since 25 April. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,267 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 2 were from Northland; 6 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 1 was from Lakes DHB area, 1 from Taranaki; 1 from Hawke’s Bay; 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region; 3 from Canterbury; 5 from Southern. Three people were in their 50s; 2 in their 60s, 5  in 70s; 7 in their 80s and 7 were aged over 90. Of these people, 10 were women and 14 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,927 new community cases 393 cases in hospital 42,398 active community cases 15,095 total RATs reported 4,582 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 27 people with COVID-19. Twenty-two of these people have died in the past 5 days, and 5 have died since 29 March. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,294 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 9 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Waikato, 1 was from Lakes DHB area, 1 from Taranaki; 1 from MidCentral, 5 from the Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough; 4 from Canterbury and 2 from the Southern region. One person was in their 40s; 2 in their 60s, 7 in 70s; 9 in their 80s and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 13 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: getting a voucher to secure your place charges and exemptions facility locations what managed isolation is like --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders.
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: $3,100 for the first person in the room $950 for each additional adult sharing the room $475 for each additional child (aged 3 to 17 years) sharing that room. There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Any New Zealander who is currently overseas and enters New Zealand after the regulations come into force for less than 90 days will be liable for charges, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Any New Zealander who leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force (for example for a holiday or business) will be liable for charges when they return, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Everyone entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker will have to pay. In many cases, their employers will pay their managed isolation and quarantine costs. Other temporary visa holders are liable for the charges, unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand at the time the border closed and departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Partners, dependent children and legal guardians who are isolating or travelling with someone who is exempt from paying charges, unless they are entering under a critical worker border exception. Someone in New Zealand who goes into managed isolation to care for a person who is exempt from charges. Anyone travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the person convicted of the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees, including claimants, protected persons and applicants under the special immigration category for victims of domestic violence, when they enter New Zealand for the first time. Anyone entering New Zealand after a medical air transfer or rescue at sea. Patients travelling as part of the Ministry of Health High Cost Treatment Pool or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade New Zealand Medical Treatment Scheme. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau who are travelling to New Zealand for medical treatment. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau, travelling from a third country through New Zealand (staying less than 90 days) in order to return to the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau (staying at least 90 days). People being deported to New Zealand, defined as “returning offenders” (in the Returning Offenders (Management and Information) Act 2015) and any New Zealand citizen deported from Australia. Diplomats and consular staff, including their families, and official government representatives. Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: a New Zealander entering managed isolation because they left New Zealand to accompany a vulnerable or disabled person back to New Zealand someone needing to travel to or from New Zealand to receive medical treatment other compassionate grounds, including when a person has travelled to visit a seriously ill or dying close relative or attend a funeral or tangihanga, whether in New Zealand or overseas. People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice.
The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks
Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Government has announced an end to the requirement for border workers and corrections staff to be fully vaccinated. This will come into place from 2 July 2022. Corrections staff in prisons are 100% vaccinated, and as of 23 June 2022, 97% of active border workers were fully vaccinated. Vaccine mandates are under continuous review by the government and will be removed when it is safe to do so. Vaccination has been one of our strongest and most effective defences to protect against COVID-19. It has helped protect our border and corrections workers and their whānau. The requirement has served its purpose well. The risk COVID-19 poses at the border is much lower than it was previously. Along with high rates of vaccination among border workers, the number of passengers arriving by air with COVID-19 is less than 3%. Corrections staff will also no longer be included in the Vaccination Order. Currently, all corrections staff in prisons are fully vaccinated and 72% of people in prison have been fully vaccinated. How we manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa continues to change. As certain protections are no longer required we will remove them. We have high levels of vaccination in the general population and we have increasing protection in the population from prior infection, so tools like vaccine mandates in most settings are no longer necessary. Corrections and border workers have played an extremely important role throughout the pandemic. We thank them for their dedication and commitment to keeping us all safe. The Vaccination Order remains in place for health and disability workers as they continue to have close interactions with people who are at high risk of serious illness from COVID-19. The settings for health and disability workers are reviewed regularly.
Displaying 11-20 of 1012 updates 30 Jun 2022 New Zealand will remain at Orange, but enhanced measures for schools and a change in reinfection advice will help reduce the spread of COVID-19. 29 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jun 2022 From 2 July 2022, the Government is removing the requirement for border and correction workers to be fully vaccinated. 28 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2022 The Government is ramping up access to free flu vaccines and COVID-19 booster shots. 23 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jun 2022 Wearing a mask plays an important part in reducing the spread of winter illness. 22 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:20pm. 21 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 1001-1010 of 1012 updates 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June.
Displaying 1011-1012 of 1012 updates 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1012 updates 20 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2022 Border workers will no longer be required to undergo COVID-19 testing from 1 July 2022. 16 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Jun 2022 Travellers to New Zealand will no longer need a COVID-19 pre-departure test from 11:59pm Monday 20 June 2022. 15 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 1012 updates 08 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1.30pm. 08 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2022 A second booster is recommended for the most vulnerable 6 months after the first booster. Several hundred thousand people will be eligible.
Displaying 41-50 of 1012 updates 26 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2022 Orange is the most appropriate setting to manage the Omicron outbreak as we head into winter. 23 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 May 2022 The Ministry of Health has expedited the process for formally coding the cause of death for those who are known to have died within 28 days of COVID-19. 18 May 2022 The Government has welcomed data showing the rate at which New Zealanders died from all causes during the COVID-19 pandemic has been lower than expected. 18 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 1012 updates 17 May 2022 Workers subject to the Vaccinations Order who test positive for COVID-19 for the first time, can get a temporary medical exemption from getting a booster dose. 17 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 May 2022 Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. 13 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 May 2022 If you are up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations you can download an updated My Vaccine Pass from 24 May. 12 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 May 2022 New Zealand’s border will reopen to all tourists and visa holders from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. 11 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 971-980 of 1012 updates 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 981-990 of 1012 updates 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community.
Displaying 991-1000 of 1012 updates 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There are no media conferences this week. We will update this page if the schedule changes. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 22 June 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 14 June 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 8 June 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 13 May 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 11 May 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home News and data Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know When to wear a mask Check your symptoms Long COVID COVID-19 variants Mental health support Report false information --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a face mask and saying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a face mask and saying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. --- Section Separator --- Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants and symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Our response to Omicron --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. --- Section Separator --- There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The recent variants of concern are: Delta Omicron. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms (though could still pass the virus on to others) has resulted in many more people being hospitalised than at any other time in the pandemic, because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who are at high risk of severe outcomes, such as older people and people with underlying health conditions. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. New Omicron sub-variants BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5, which have arrived in New Zealand recently, are likely to replace BA.2 as the main sub-variants in New Zealand. Although there continue to be new variants of Omicron, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of disease due to these variants. The public health settings already in place to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for managing the subvariants present in our community. We have a system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to carry out whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas. COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | Ministry of Health (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Baricitinib Ronapreve Remdesivir Tocilizumab Paxlovid Molnupiravir. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Wastewater testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The recent variants of concern are: Delta Omicron. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms (though could still pass the virus on to others) has resulted in many more people being hospitalised than at any other time in the pandemic, because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who are at high risk of severe outcomes, such as older people and people with underlying health conditions. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. New Omicron sub-variants BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5, which have arrived in New Zealand recently, are likely to replace BA.2 as the main sub-variants in New Zealand. Although there continue to be new variants of Omicron, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of disease due to these variants. The public health settings already in place to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for managing the subvariants present in our community. We have a system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to carry out whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | Ministry of Health (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Baricitinib Ronapreve Remdesivir Tocilizumab Paxlovid Molnupiravir. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Wastewater testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe COVID-19 support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. I am looking for... Communication and language support Financial support Contact us Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. --- Section Separator --- There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. Financial support
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people.
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 About the traffic light system Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 disability helpline can provide assistance with vaccines, applying for face mask exemptions, advice on COVID-19 testing, and guidance with managing COVID-19 at home. Call them on 0800 11 12 13 . The COVID-19 welfare phone line can help if you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items. Call them on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. --- Section Separator --- If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Support and information for seniors
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- At Red, there are restrictions on indoor gatherings at marae to help limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect the safety and wellbeing of whānau, hapū, and iwi . It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether to allow gatherings and whether gatherings are held inside or outside. Advice for marae at Red At Orange, g atherings at marae can go ahead. There are no restrictions on indoor or outdoor gatherings. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Gatherings at Orange He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- 0800 Ola Lelei – 0800 652 535 Check out the range of free services and resources available to you --- Section Separator --- It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Popular topics Large Print and audio Protect yourself from COVID-19 Get a booster Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Get support Face mask advice Traffic light settings --- Section Separator --- For free health advice, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Information about our response to COVID-19 — including vaccination, self-isolation guidance and traffic light settings — is available in Large Print and audio. Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from Healthline — call 0800 358 5453 If you cannot leave your home, you may be able to to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. People aged 18 and over can get a booster if it has been 3 months since they completed their primary course. For most people, this is 2 doses. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition To book your vaccination or get advice, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26. Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, tell your support provider so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. Some people cannot wear masks. If you have a legitimate reason for not wearing a face mask, such as a disability or a physical or mental health condition, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Online: Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 11 12 13 By text: 8988 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- JP's story: Protecting his Grandma Tina's story: Keeping herself safe Kali's story: Protecting her tamariki Dallas' story: Protecting his whānau Kim's story: Keeping herself safe Elaine's story: Protecting her father Kiahan's story: Protecting his Nan Chelsea's story: Protecting her son --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Reduce the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing | Ministry of Health (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines
Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you must wear them, how to wear them safely, and who is exempt from wearing one. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. Wearing a face mask helps to stop the spread of COVID-19. You can make a face mask easily and cheaply. It should have at least 3 layers. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. Wearing a face mask helps to stop the spread of COVID-19. You can make a face mask easily and cheaply. It should have at least 3 layers.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks How to make a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. When you must wear a face mask Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Types of face masks --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp. A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: your level of infection risk how well the face mask fits you the filtration ability of the material comfort. However, any face mask is better than no face mask. You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing together with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks are not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp. A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: your level of infection risk how well the face mask fits you the filtration ability of the material comfort. However, any face mask is better than no face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing together with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. --- Section Separator --- Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. --- Section Separator --- Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly --- Section Separator --- These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks are not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks When to wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. What you need to know Face masks at Orange Exemptions Face masks at Red Face masks at Green --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are in a public indoor setting. We encourage you to wear a face mask when it is hard to keep your distance from people you do not know. You do not need to wear a face mask when exercising. Everyone must wear a mask that is attached to the face by loops around the ears or head. Types of face masks Wearing a face mask is unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask in the following situations. If you are a visitor, worker, teacher or student in Years 4 to 13 indoors at schools — for example, in classrooms and assemblies Inside tertiary education facilities When visiting a licensed early childhood service On public transport — this includes Cook Strait Ferries, but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services If you are aged 8 or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education-funded school transport In taxis or ride-share vehicles On domestic flights At indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport If you are seated indoors at food and drink businesses — for example, cafes, bars and restaurants. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. Inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries. This does not include swimming pools. At close-proximity businesses, for example, hairdressers, barbers and beauty salons At indoor events At indoor gatherings, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space. Everyone working at a gathering must wear a face mask (unless they are exempt). When visiting a health care service, for example, a healthcare or aged care facility. This does not include patients or residents. At a vet clinic Inside a retail business — for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations and takeaway food stores When visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal (unless the judicial officer does not require them) At premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers and NZ Police In the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This also applies to anyone supporting or assisting you when you go to vote. You must wear a face mask if you work in a voting place. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask in the following situations. On public transport — this includes Cook Strait Ferries, but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services If you are aged 12 years or over on Ministry of Education funded school transport and public transport In taxis or ride-share vehicles On domestic flights At indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport Inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries. This does not include swimming pools. When visiting a health care service, for example, a healthcare or aged care facility. This does not include patients or residents. At a vet clinic Inside a retail business — for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations and takeaway food stores When visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal (unless the judicial officer does not require them) At premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers and NZ Police In the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This also applies to anyone supporting or assisting you when you go to vote. --- Section Separator --- You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. You do not need to wear a face mask at work at Green. --- Section Separator --- Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example, weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example, jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example, pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry when at a voting place to vote in an election. This also applies to anyone supporting or assisting you when you go to vote. you have been issued an exemption pass you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example, if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example, weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example, jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example, pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry when at a voting place to vote in an election. This also applies to anyone supporting or assisting you when you go to vote. you have been issued an exemption pass you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example, if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to maintain records for contact tracing purposes. However, if you test positive for COVID-19, you need to tell the people you have been in contact with while infectious that you have COVID-19. This can include others you live with, your colleagues or workplace, friends, or school. Even if your contacts do not have to isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. --- Section Separator --- It is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on in the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you test positive, you will be sent a link to an online form, where you can share: contact details of your contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited Bluetooth data from the NZ COVID Tracer app. This information can help stop the spread of the virus in high-risk locations and protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- You can continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app. We recommend you keep the NZ COVID Tracer app on your phone. We may bring back the contact tracing system if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. NZ COVID Tracer app | Ministry of Health (external link) You can also use the NZ COVID Tracer app to find key links to: request free RATs so you can test for COVID-19 at home if you are unwell record your RAT result book your booster dose find information if you test positive or are a Household Contact. To access these links, select ‘Dashboard’, and open the ‘more info’ tab. You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | Ministry of Health (external link) How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] You can also order copies of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet if you cannot print your own. You can also order booklets in other languages. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) Email: Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is no longer publishing locations of interest. Case investigations are focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts.
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Support to get through COVID-19 | Mental Health Foundation (external link) The All Right? website shares practical tips for looking after yourself and your whānau. Getting through together | All Right? (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | Ministry of Health (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | Mental Health Foundation (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | Mental Health Foundation (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | Netsafe (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | New Zealand Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Support to get through COVID-19 | Mental Health Foundation (external link) The All Right? website shares practical tips for looking after yourself and your whānau. Getting through together | All Right? (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | Ministry of Health (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | Mental Health Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | Mental Health Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | Netsafe (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | New Zealand Police (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it.
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Get the facts You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines questioned answered | covid19.govt.nz Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | health.govt.nz (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua | karawhiua.nz (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch COVID-19 vaccine educational videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine works. COVID-19 information from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples | mpp.govt.nz (external link) Your local district health board (DHB) has information about health and disability services in your region, including information on vaccinations. District health board websites | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also keep up to date by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre | immune.org.nz (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization | who.int (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Check if the information is false. You can do this by going to reliable sources above. Acknowledge their concerns and fears. Do not mock them for having fears or vaccine concerns. Decide if it is best to engage directly. It may be best to send them a message or talk to them privately about what they have said. If they have posted on social media and are getting a lot of interest you may want to report it to the platform. You have the option to remain anonymous. Try to find areas you can both agree on. If the person you are engaging with gets defensive and you feel that it is no longer constructive, it may be best not to proceed. Share accurate resources. If we share accurate, verified information we might encourage others too. Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Report false or misleading information If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook.com (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube.com (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter.com (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram.com (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — WhatsApp.com (external link) Report a problem — TikTok.com (external link) Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite against COVID-19, or your district health board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm What is misinformation and online harm? There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 kinds of misinformation: Mis-information: Information that is false, but not created with the intention of causing harm. Dis-information: Information that is false and was created to harm a person, social group, organisation or country. Mal-information: Information that is based on reality, used to inflict harm on a person, organisation or country. You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. --- Section Separator --- Harmful online content includes cyberbullying and inappropriate material, such as violent and sexual material that can cause emotional and physiological distress. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when someone uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: abusive and hurtful messages, images or videos repeated unwanted messages spreading gossip and lies fake accounts used to humiliate or harass someone excluding others online embarrassing pictures, videos, websites, or fake profiles sharing personal or identifying information about someone without their consent (doxxing) Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. --- Section Separator --- Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. --- Section Separator --- As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds --- Section Separator --- You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your whānau can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online, so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your whānau can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online, so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Wellbeing helplines and support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. I am looking for... Contact us Report a breach Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available.
Home Prepare and stay safe When to call for help --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and tracing Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know When you should get tested Household Contacts Keep track of where you have been Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. --- Section Separator --- During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days and get tested. If you have had COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you do not need to isolate again. If you have completed your isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days, you do not need to isolate again. Work out your isolation dates using the COVID-19 Health Hub tool. Use the isolation timeline tool | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Find more information and advice | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate for 7 days, starting from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first, and get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, follow the guidance for people with COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You also do not need to isolate again if you have completed isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection — either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms — they may be related to your last infection. Stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you become increasingly unwell, seek help from your GP. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 29 days or more since of your previous infection, and you are at low risk of severe illness, we recommend you take a COVID-19 test. If it is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days and get tested. If you have had COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you do not need to isolate again. If you have completed your isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days, you do not need to isolate again. Work out your isolation dates using the COVID-19 Health Hub tool. Use the isolation timeline tool | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Find more information and advice | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate for 7 days, starting from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first, and get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, follow the guidance for people with COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You also do not need to isolate again if you have completed isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection — either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms — they may be related to your last infection. Stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you become increasingly unwell, seek help from your GP. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 29 days or more since of your previous infection, and you are at low risk of severe illness, we recommend you take a COVID-19 test. If it is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. What you need to know When you need a test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results If you test positive Getting your PCR test results Information in other languages and alternate formats --- Section Separator --- A COVID-19 test is free if it is part of the public health response. This includes if you: have symptoms are a Household Contact are a critical worker and need a test to go to work are part of the healthcare and emergency service workforce require a test to attend court do a job where mandatory testing applies have been told to get one by a health professional. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. If you are unsure, talk to your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same residence, you need to get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. You do not need to get a test if you had COVID-19 in the last 3  months or completed your isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days. Advice for Household Contacts If you are a Close Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Advice for Close Contacts People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free test from their doctor or community health provider. They will decide which type of test is best for you. If you want to get a test for another reason — for example, because you are visiting friends or whānau — you can buy RATs at retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are at low risk of serious illness, you do not need to take another test. Stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 types of COVID-19 tests available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method being used now for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are a Household Contact. Results take about 20 minutes. RATs detect all COVID-19 variants. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are still being used in some situations. Results take between 2 and 5 days. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. PCR tests detect all COVID-19 variants. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | Healthpoint (external link) Requesting RATs to use at home is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order. Online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am-8pm, 7 days a week) You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- Test instructions vary depending on the brand. Many rapid antigen testing kits follow the instructions below, but not all. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- If you get a positive test result, you must self-isolate immediately and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. Your test result does not need to be confirmed with a PCR unless advised. What steps to take if you have tested positive If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, it is likely you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms, stay at home and carry out another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse, contact your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . It is possible for someone with COVID-19 to get a negative RAT result. This can be because there was not enough virus in the sample, or because the test was not carried out correctly. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. Reporting your result will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. You can report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take between 2 and 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you have COVID-19
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Then pinch the swab as you are removing it – squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. Please report your results (positive or negative): online: My Covid Record (external link) by calling: 0800 222 478 (and choose option 3). Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). --- Section Separator --- Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. --- Section Separator --- Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. --- Section Separator --- Then pinch the swab as you are removing it – squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. --- Section Separator --- Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. --- Section Separator --- With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. --- Section Separator --- Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. --- Section Separator --- Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. --- Section Separator --- Please report your results (positive or negative): online: My Covid Record (external link) by calling: 0800 222 478 (and choose option 3). Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Reporting your results mean you can get the help you need as early as possible. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 Testing requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- Reporting your results mean you can get the help you need as early as possible. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 --- Section Separator --- Testing requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19
Home Traffic lights The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. What you need to know Hospitality at Orange Shopping at Orange Events and public facilities at Orange Gatherings at Orange Playing sport at Orange Businesses and workplaces at Orange Travel at Orange Education at Orange --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- At every traffic light setting, you can get basic needs such as food, healthcare, education and public transport. You must wear a face mask unless you have an exemption. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- You can always access these places and services. You do not need to show proof of vaccination at: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. --- Section Separator --- You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. --- Section Separator --- Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs, at some traffic light settings. When to wear a face mask There are some situations where you do not need to wear a face mask. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find out more about where you do not need to wear a face mask, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one: Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Retail businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Health providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Aged care providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Social service providers can find more information on the Ministry of Social Development website. --- Section Separator --- Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Retail businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Health providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Aged care providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Social service providers can find more information on the Ministry of Social Development website.
Home Traffic lights History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange The framework replaced Alert Levels in December 2021. It has 3 traffic light settings of Red, Orange and Green. The framework aims to: help people protect one another from the virus keep hospitalisation rates as low as possible and avoid overwhelming the health system minimise the impact of large outbreaks reduce the need for lockdowns. It also aims to give people and businesses more stability. At all traffic light settings, essential services will continue to operate. This includes supermarkets, health services, emergency services, goods transport, and utilities such as power and water supplies. A high vaccination rate is a key tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated means you are less likely to get extremely sick or infect other people. Some workplaces may require staff to be vaccinated. Vaccine mandates for many government workers ended during 2022. Wearing face masks is a way we can protect ourselves and others. At Red and Orange traffic light settings, there are some places you must wear a mask, such as on public transport and in supermarkets. At Red, capacity limits apply in some indoor settings. Limits are based on 1-metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person, up to the maximum capacity limit. It does not mean everyone must stay 1 metre apart. Capacity limits do not include workers (paid and unpaid). If an area has very high infection rates, extra restrictions such as local lockdowns or other protective steps may be used. Examples of protective steps include: stay at home orders closing premises, such as schools or shops limiting numbers allowed at gatherings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] The COVID-19 Alert Level System ends. History of the Alert System At 11:59pm New Zealand moves to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, or traffic light system. Northland, Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Red. The rest of the North Island, and the South Island, move to Orange. Watch 1 December media conference Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm. People travelling out of Auckland need to be vaccinated or have proof of a negative test. First confirmed Omicron border case. The international traveller tests positive soon after arriving on 10 December. Genome sequencing then detects Omicron. Watch 16 December media conference Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Orange at 11:59pm. Northland remains at Red. Auckland boundary-crossing rules end. People travelling out of Auckland no longer need proof of vaccination or a negative test. Northland moves to Orange at 11:59pm. First confirmed Omicron community cases. All New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm. Watch 23 January media conference The Government introduces Omicron phases, with different approaches to testing and isolation as case numbers grow. Phase 1: Focus on stamping out small outbreaks, with PCR testing and 14-day isolation period for COVID-19 cases. Phase 2: Focus on slowing the spread and protecting those most at risk of getting seriously ill. Contact tracing switches to online self-assessments, isolation period drops to 10 days. Phase 3: Focus on safely managing COVID-19 at home, with self-testing kits of rapid antigen tests (RATs) and isolation only for people who test positive and their Household Contacts. Government announces 3-phase public health response to Omicron Our response to Omicron Face mask rules change for Red at 11:59pm. Increased mask use to prepare for Omicron Close Contact exemption scheme begins for workers in key sectors. All New Zealand moves to Phase 2 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 16 February media conference All New Zealand moves to Phase 3 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 24 February media conference Isolation period drops from 10 to 7 days at 11:59pm. Changes to traffic light settings at 11:59pm include: Indoor gathering limits at Red increase from 100 to 200 people. No more limits on numbers at outdoor gatherings in any traffic light setting. Contact tracing and record-keeping requirements end for businesses and other organisations. Vaccine passes are no longer needed in any traffic setting from 11:59pm. Most vaccine mandates end for government workers. All New Zealand remains at Red. Watch 4 April media conference All New Zealand moves to Orange at 11:59pm. Watch 13 April media conference Vaccine mandates end for border and corrections workers. Vaccine mandates end for some workers in the Defence Force, Fire and Emergency, and Police. --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- The framework replaced Alert Levels in December 2021. It has 3 traffic light settings of Red, Orange and Green. The framework aims to: help people protect one another from the virus keep hospitalisation rates as low as possible and avoid overwhelming the health system minimise the impact of large outbreaks reduce the need for lockdowns. It also aims to give people and businesses more stability. At all traffic light settings, essential services will continue to operate. This includes supermarkets, health services, emergency services, goods transport, and utilities such as power and water supplies. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated means you are less likely to get extremely sick or infect other people. Some workplaces may require staff to be vaccinated. Vaccine mandates for many government workers ended during 2022. Wearing face masks is a way we can protect ourselves and others. At Red and Orange traffic light settings, there are some places you must wear a mask, such as on public transport and in supermarkets. At Red, capacity limits apply in some indoor settings. Limits are based on 1-metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person, up to the maximum capacity limit. It does not mean everyone must stay 1 metre apart. Capacity limits do not include workers (paid and unpaid). If an area has very high infection rates, extra restrictions such as local lockdowns or other protective steps may be used. Examples of protective steps include: stay at home orders closing premises, such as schools or shops limiting numbers allowed at gatherings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Alert Level System ends. History of the Alert System At 11:59pm New Zealand moves to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, or traffic light system. Northland, Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Red. The rest of the North Island, and the South Island, move to Orange. Watch 1 December media conference Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm. People travelling out of Auckland need to be vaccinated or have proof of a negative test. First confirmed Omicron border case. The international traveller tests positive soon after arriving on 10 December. Genome sequencing then detects Omicron. Watch 16 December media conference Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Orange at 11:59pm. Northland remains at Red. Auckland boundary-crossing rules end. People travelling out of Auckland no longer need proof of vaccination or a negative test. Northland moves to Orange at 11:59pm. First confirmed Omicron community cases. All New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm. Watch 23 January media conference The Government introduces Omicron phases, with different approaches to testing and isolation as case numbers grow. Phase 1: Focus on stamping out small outbreaks, with PCR testing and 14-day isolation period for COVID-19 cases. Phase 2: Focus on slowing the spread and protecting those most at risk of getting seriously ill. Contact tracing switches to online self-assessments, isolation period drops to 10 days. Phase 3: Focus on safely managing COVID-19 at home, with self-testing kits of rapid antigen tests (RATs) and isolation only for people who test positive and their Household Contacts. Government announces 3-phase public health response to Omicron Our response to Omicron Face mask rules change for Red at 11:59pm. Increased mask use to prepare for Omicron Close Contact exemption scheme begins for workers in key sectors. All New Zealand moves to Phase 2 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 16 February media conference All New Zealand moves to Phase 3 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 24 February media conference Isolation period drops from 10 to 7 days at 11:59pm. Changes to traffic light settings at 11:59pm include: Indoor gathering limits at Red increase from 100 to 200 people. No more limits on numbers at outdoor gatherings in any traffic light setting. Contact tracing and record-keeping requirements end for businesses and other organisations. Vaccine passes are no longer needed in any traffic setting from 11:59pm. Most vaccine mandates end for government workers. All New Zealand remains at Red. Watch 4 April media conference All New Zealand moves to Orange at 11:59pm. Watch 13 April media conference Vaccine mandates end for border and corrections workers. Vaccine mandates end for some workers in the Defence Force, Fire and Emergency, and Police. --- Section Separator --- Access to basic needs Traffic lights map Life at Red Life at Orange Life at Green History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions. There is no requirement to scan in or for a business to display a QR code poster or have mandatory record keeping. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. Stay home if you are sick, and take a rapid antigen test (RAT) if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Stay up to date with your vaccinations. Learn more about healthy habits --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there is community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Orange: Gatherings Hospitality Businesses and workplaces Events Education Shopping and services Travel and accommodation Sport and recreation --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you can continue to do everyday activities, but we need to protect our vulnerable communities. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are no capacity limits or distancing requirements at venues. Workplaces and schools can open. To protect yourself, your whānau and your community, keep up healthy habits. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Orange. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play sports and attend sports events at Orange. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Orange. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play sports and attend sports events at Orange. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange or read more at employment.govt.nz: Working at Orange | employment.govt.nz (external link) There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be fully vaccinated. Vaccination and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a visitor or customer at a business that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Get your My Vaccine Pass Shopping and services at Orange Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes quickly and easily. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Staff at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development. --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura, and tertiary institutions can open. You are encouraged to wear a face mask indoors. All ākonga (students) aged 12 years or over must wear face masks on public and school transport. --- Section Separator --- This includes: certified playgroups all licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo schools and kura tertiary institutions. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on-site at education services. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to wear a face mask indoors wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Face masks are encouraged when inside at school. All ākonga (students) aged 12 and over must wear face masks on school transport. --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Tertiary education providers and students can find more information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Tertiary education providers and students can find more information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events can go ahead. Public facilities can open. There are no limits to how many people can attend an event or public facility. You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except swimming pools. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange. Examples include: auctions cinemas concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities private galleries sporting events stadiums. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. Workers and volunteers at indoor events must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open at Orange. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except swimming pools. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an event or visit a public facility. This applies indoors and outdoors. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit for indoor or outdoor gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. They should wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. Businesses can find more detailed information about gatherings on business.govt.nz. Funeral directors, and religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on the Ministry of Health website. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. Businesses can find more detailed information about gatherings on business.govt.nz. Funeral directors, and religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on the Ministry of Health website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues can open. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue — either indoors or outdoors. You do not have to be seated to be served. Food and drink services that only offer takeaway, like coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear a medical grade face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can move house, and buy and sell property at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel and accommodation at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Orange. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Orange | Real Estate Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when moving, buying or selling your home. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website. --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, retail outlets, and close-proximity businesses, such as barbers, can open at Orange. You must wear a face mask at many indoor businesses. There are no capacity limits. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Orange. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples of a close-proximity business include: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside your home, but it is encouraged. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you are isolating or are unwell — unless it is an emergency or you have a support carer. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. You must wear a face mask: inside retail businesses, for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies and petrol stations in takeaway food stores at a vet clinic. Workers at retail and close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation At Orange, you can play sports, attend sports events, indoor recreation facilities can open, and outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sport events can go ahead at Orange. This includes community and professional sport. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open. This includes gyms, dance studios, ice skating rinks, playgrounds and outdoor exercise classes. There are no capacity limits indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors, at a sporting or recreation event, when you are exercising, or playing sport. When face masks do not need to be worn At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find more detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find more detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. This information is for domestic travel. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason. Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Orange. There are no regional boundaries. If you are travelling into different setting areas, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You can take public transport, taxis and ride-shares. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. If you have COVID-19 What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds and cabins seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation facility. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services inside accommodation facilities, other than room service, must follow the advice for hospitality venues. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at indoor arrival and departure points, for example inside airports and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. You do not need to wear a face mask at accommodation facilities, but you are encouraged to wear one in public indoor settings. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting. Do not visit aged care facilities or rest homes if you are unwell, have COVID-19 symptoms, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. Examples include limiting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit if you are unwell, have COVID-19 symptoms, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some prisons allow face-to-face visits for private and legal visitors. Others offer video calls but not in-person visits. You do not need to be vaccinated to visit someone in prison. But you are encouraged to: be vaccinated and boosted take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and get a negative result. Check which prisons allow visits on the Corrections website. Prison visit updates | Corrections NZ (external link) (external link)C --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Red: Gatherings and visits Hospitality Shopping and services, like hairdressers Travel and accommodation Sports and recreation Events Education Public facilities Access to basic needs --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. You will always be able to access basic needs services , such as food and healthcare. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason, and see friends and whānau. You must wear a face mask in most indoor locations. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are capacity limits and distancing requirements at some venues. Workplaces and schools are open. Keep physically distanced wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we encourage those who can, to work from home. If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | Employment New Zealand (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) Some critical workers may be able to return to work if they are a Household Contact, are fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out more about the close contact exemption scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. If you are a worker, you can talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz: Working at Red | Employment New Zealand (external link) There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. Vaccination and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a visitor or customer at a business that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Get your My Vaccine Pass Shopping and services at Red Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes quickly and easily. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Staff at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development. --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura can open . Children and teachers in Year 4 and up must wear a face mask indoors. Staff, parents/caregivers and visitors to education services must wear a face mask indoors. Tertiary institutions can open, and students can attend in person. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities. --- Section Separator --- This includes: certified playgroups all licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo schools and kura tertiary institutions. All parents/caregivers and other visitors to early learning, schools and kura are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example, to settle your child or to view a service. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. You do not need to physically distance at a tertiary education facility. However, tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. --- Section Separator --- All parents/caregivers and visitors to education services must wear a face mask indoors. Find a full list of when you need to wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Types of face masks Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Children do not need to wear a face mask. Staff and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children do not need to wear a face mask when attending early learning services or on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or up, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: indoors on public transport at all times on school transport. Staff and teachers must wear medical-grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. Face mask guidance | Ministry of Education (external link) Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities. Face masks must also be worn indoors when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Tertiary education providers and students can find more information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Tertiary education providers and students can find more information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead. Indoor events are limited to 200 people . There are no capacity limits outdoors. Children and babies are included in the event limits — but not people working at a gathering. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated. Public facilities can open with capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Red. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Red. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Red. --- Section Separator --- Indoor events are limited to 200 people. Outdoor events have no capacity limits. Children and babies are included in the capacity limits — but not people working at events. You must wear a face mask at indoor events. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated . --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red. Examples are: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. There can be up to 200 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Generally, when food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated . You can move around when you are not being served or eating. In cinemas, theatres and stadiums, you can buy food and drink from the counter, but you must be seated when you consume it. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor event. You do not need to wear a face mask if the event is outdoors. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face mask at indoor events. They do not need to wear face masks at outdoor events. Performers and entertainers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they can keep 2 metre physical distance from the audience at all times. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open with capacity limits. Face masks must be worn indoors, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn at indoor public facilities. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for determining capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Indoor gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Defined spaces --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces. It does not matter if there is shared air between the spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points. temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask at indoor gatherings unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces. It does not matter if there is shared air between the spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points. temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. --- Section Separator --- Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask at indoor gatherings unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. --- Section Separator --- More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Travel and accommodation Businesses and workplaces Hospitality venues Shopping and services Events and public facilities Education Moving, buying and selling your home Sport and recreation
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Faith-based gatherings You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings can go ahead. Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers) at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask if your gathering is outside, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: services at places of worship prayer group at home weddings funerals and tangihanga. Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. --- Section Separator --- Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit. Workers (paid or unpaid) at a gathering — for example, the person leading the service and musicians — are not included in the gathering limits. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. At all gatherings, you do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, mingle with others and dance. --- Section Separator --- Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoors gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with gathering attendees. Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. When to wear a face mask Face mask exemptions Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. People do not need to sit down to eat or drink, unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at an indoor venue at any time. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. There is no limit to how many people can be at an outdoor venue. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 200 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 200 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined indoor space at the marae at a time. There is no limit on outdoor gatherings. Children, babies, whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers). Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if they are the only group using the defined space and other manuhiri cannot mix. --- Section Separator --- At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This number includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Defined spaces at Red Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend if the gathering is outdoors. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red --- Section Separator --- Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask when indoors. If you cannot wear a face mask, for example for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is outdoors, or if the gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is indoors and shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū. --- Section Separator --- He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB]
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Indoor gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead at Red. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 200 people . Gatherings at other indoor venues are limited to a maximum of 200 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 200 people. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend an outdoor gathering. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- Friends and whānau can visit each other's homes at every traffic light setting. There may be restrictions on who can visit rest homes, aged care facilities, hospitals and healthcare facilities. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. --- Section Separator --- Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting. Do not visit aged care facilities or rest homes if you are unwell, have COVID-19 symptoms, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. Examples include limiting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit if you are unwell, have COVID-19 symptoms, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some prisons allow face-to-face visits for private and legal visitors. Others offer video calls but not in-person visits. You do not need to be vaccinated to visit someone in prison. But you are encouraged to: be vaccinated and boosted take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and get a negative result. Check which prisons allow visits on the Corrections website. Prison visit updates | Corrections NZ (external link) (external link)C --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when you visit friends and whānau at their home, or host a gathering in your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting: aged care facilities and rest homes hospitals healthcare facilities. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Weddings and civil unions at Red You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. --- Section Separator --- Weddings and civil union ceremonies can go ahead. Indoor ceremonies are limited to 200 people. Outdoor ceremonies have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not workers, such as the celebrant or the photographer. You do not have to wear a face mask for outdoor ceremonies, or if you have exclusive use of a defined space for your wedding or civil union. You do not have to physically distance — this means you can dance and mingle. --- Section Separator --- You can have 200 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The 200-person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony, such as the celebrant, photographer, performers and catering staff. Friends and whānau participating in the ceremony are not included as workers. If your ceremony is outdoors, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend. These are limited to a maximum of up to 200 people based on 1-metre physical distancing. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 200 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if your ceremony is outdoors, or if you have exclusive use of an indoor defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony — for example,if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard. This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place — for example, if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Performers, such as a band, do not need to wear a face mask when performing if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can open at Red. There can be up to 200 people indoors , including children. There are no capacity limits outdoors . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. You must wear a face mask when at a hospitality venue. Public-facing workers must also wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people indoors, including children. The limit does not include workers. There is no limit for outdoor venues . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Food courts do not need to follow the seated and separated rules or the capacity limits unless they are serving alcohol. Otherwise, food courts should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Red --- Section Separator --- Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services and food courts should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Red Order ahead, either online or over the phone. Wear a face mask. Prepay online, or use a contactless payment method, like PayWave. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, we recommend you wash or sanitise your hands as soon as possible. You may be able to use reusable cups or containers. Check with the takeaway provider. Keep apart from others while waiting in a queue. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when at a hospitality business, for example, when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Public-facing workers at a hospitality business must wear a medical-grade face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house and buy and sell property at Red. You can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing at an open home or property inspection. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel and accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Red. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) Properties can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | Real Estate Authority (external link) Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Property owners and real estate agents should agree on any face mask requirements for open homes. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website. --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, retail outlets, and close-proximity businesses, such as barbers, can open at Red. The number of people allowed inside a business depends on how large the premises is. You must wear a face mask indoors when visiting shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Red. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Examples of close-proximity businesses include: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside your home. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you are isolating or are unwell — unless it is an emergency or you have a support carer. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. You must wear a face mask: inside retail businesses, for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies and petrol stations in takeaway food stores at a vet clinic when visiting a close-proximity business, for example, hairdressers, barbers and beauty salons. At a close-proximity business, you may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is getting a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. Retail workers, tradespeople and workers at close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports events can go ahead. Indoor sports events are limited to 200 people. Outdoor sports events have no limits . Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can open with up to 200 people. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead with no limits . Swimming pools can open. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports, including sporting events, can go ahead at Red. This includes professional and community sports, like organised social touch rugby. Spectators should keep 2 metres apart from players. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red. This includes: gyms dance studios yoga studios health clubs ice skating rinks bowling alleys parks and playgrounds sports grounds outdoor exercise classes. Businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements and ask to see your My Vaccine Pass. Private clubs, such as golf or tennis clubs, that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. --- Section Separator --- There is no capacity limit for outdoor sporting events or recreation facilities, for example, exercise classes, community sports or parks and playgrounds. Indoor sport and recreation facilities, for example, stadiums, indoor arenas, or gyms, can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. It is the responsibility of the business or organiser to ensure indoor venues comply with capacity limits. Defined spaces at Red The limit does not include workers at the venue. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask You do not need to wear a face mask: outdoors at a swimming pool at a gym or indoor recreation facility when you are exercising. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. It must be a medical-grade face mask. --- Section Separator --- If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red If you are holding a gathering at a recreation facility, you will need to follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. This includes public swimming pools. Public facilities at Red Public swimming pools can open. If you are visiting a public swimming pool, you must follow the rules for public facilities. You do not need to wear a face mask at a swimming pool. Swimmers should keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Indoor and outdoor swimming pools at private facilities can open. This includes saunas and steam rooms. Learn to swim classes can continue. It is the responsibility of the facility to ensure a swimming pool complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel for sport or recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel and accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find more detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find more detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. --- Section Separator --- At Red, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason. Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Red. There are no regional boundaries. If you are travelling into different setting areas, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You can take public transport, taxis and ride-shares. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. If you have COVID-19 What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds and cabins seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation facility. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points that are indoors, for example inside airports and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education-funded school transport (school buses). You must wear a face mask if you are indoors at a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits, such as hand washing and staying home when sick. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website.
Home Traffic lights Traffic lights map Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do under each traffic light setting: Life at Red Life at Orange Life at Green --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link)