These Alert Levels came into effect at 6am on Sunday 7 March. You might be interested in --- Section Separator --- The first phase of New Zealand’s largest ever immunisation programme has kicked off, rolling out vaccinations to border and MIQ workers in Auckland. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Wear face coverings on public transport, domestic flights and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded places. --- Section Separator --- 8 March 2021 vaccines media conference 5 March 2021 media conference 4 March 2021 COVID-19 media conference 3 March 2021 COVID-19 media conference 2 March 2021 COVID-19 media conference --- Section Separator --- Watch the COVID-19 vaccines media conference with government officials and ministers. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. A border-related case of COVID-19 has been identified today as part of routine surveillance testing. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori New Zealand Sign Language عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Large Print and audio Easy Read
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential resurgence over summer. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential resurgence over summer. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it.
Home COVID-19 Alert System About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand (external link) Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms (external link) Getting a COVID-19 test (external link) Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings (external link) Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy (external link) At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been (external link) Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster (external link) COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information (external link) --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms (external link) Getting a COVID-19 test (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been (external link) Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information (external link) --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go to work and school, but should follow public health measures and consider others around you. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Who needs to wear face coverings You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out and getting takeaways safely Going out to bars and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go to work and school, but should follow public health measures and consider others around you. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Who needs to wear face coverings You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out and getting takeaways safely Going out to bars and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities --- Section Separator --- You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you can to avoid any risk of spread. You must work from home unless you're not able to. Children should learn at home if possible. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and retail stores, like supermarkets 1 metre in controlled environments, like workplaces and schools. Maintaining physical distancing You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. Personal travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you can to avoid any risk of spread. You must work from home unless you're not able to. Children should learn at home if possible. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and retail stores, like supermarkets 1 metre in controlled environments, like workplaces and schools. Maintaining physical distancing You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. Personal travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. --- Section Separator --- Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People are instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings are cancelled and all public venues are closed. Businesses are closed except for essential services - for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities will stay open. Educational facilities are closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities is possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information as last year. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People are instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings are cancelled and all public venues are closed. Businesses are closed except for essential services - for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities will stay open. Educational facilities are closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities is possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information as last year. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Enter your address or click on the map for New Zealand’s Alert Level boundaries. Refinements to this map are in development. This map is in beta, please provide any feedback via this form (external link) (external link) . --- Section Separator --- Checkpoint locations are included in the map. The New Zealand Police will be present at the following locations: Northern boundary SH1/Mangawhai Road (Twin Coast Discovery Highway) Mangawhai Road / north of Coal Hill Road Black Swamp, west of Rako Road Mangawhai Road and Cames Road Mangawhai Road and Ryan Road Note:  Mangawhai Road also known as Twin Coast Discovery Highway Southern boundary Mercer off ramp / Koheroa Road – (South bound traffic on SH1 and Mercy Ferry road). SH1 / Oram Road – (North bound traffic on SH1) Mangatawhiri Road / Koheroa Road / SH2 off ramp (All East and West Bound traffic) East Coast Road (Waharau Regional Park) Pukekawa-Churchill / Highway 22 and Highway 22 / Logan Road) A presence will also be maintained south of Port Waikato through the Limestone Downs area --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi's Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Journey Planner also provides updates on the latest traffic information at Alert Level 3 checkpoints. Find out the latest traffic information at the checkpoints (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. Business travel permitted across an Alert Level boundary Personal travel permitted across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Learn more about what measures we need to take for personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings under each Alert Level. Information about Alert Level 1 Information about Alert Level 2 Information about Alert Level 3 Information about Alert Level 4
Home COVID-19 Alert System COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
The Auckland region is at Alert Level 2. This came into effect at 6am on Sunday 7 March. What we need to do at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. This came into effect at 6am on Sunday 7 March. What we need to do at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Wear face coverings on public transport, domestic flights and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded places.
Home COVID-19 Alert System Government actions --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced by the Government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. About the COVID-19 Alert System Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas legally must complete 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced by the Government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. About the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas legally must complete 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you're sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. --- Section Separator --- How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you're sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region. --- Section Separator --- Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region.
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Auckland --- Section Separator --- The case is an airline crew member who returned to New Zealand from Japan on 28 February, and returned a negative COVID-19 result. The person then returned a positive test result today after a swab taken yesterday as part of routine surveillance testing. There is currently 1 location of interest: the Auckland Airport Countdown on 3 March between 12:07pm and 1:22pm. What you should do if you visited the location of interest (external link) The risk to the public is considered low. Locations of interest for the Auckland February cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Locations of interest in Auckland (external link) There are several types of ‘contacts’: close plus contacts close contacts casual plus contacts, and casual contacts. The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) What you need to do depends if you are a close plus contact, close contact, casual plus contact or a casual contact. When you need to get tested if you're a contact (external link) We anticipate a high demand at COVID-19 testing sites and delays are possible, so please be patient. Frontline staff are working hard to ensure everyone who needs to be tested gets a test as soon as possible. Further information on community testing station hours is available on the Auckland Regional Public Health Service website. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who have been advised to self-isolate and who cannot work from home. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) Learn more about financial support for businesses If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Who needs to wear face coverings These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently – follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The case is an airline crew member who returned to New Zealand from Japan on 28 February, and returned a negative COVID-19 result. The person then returned a positive test result today after a swab taken yesterday as part of routine surveillance testing. There is currently 1 location of interest: the Auckland Airport Countdown on 3 March between 12:07pm and 1:22pm. What you should do if you visited the location of interest (external link) The risk to the public is considered low. --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the Auckland February cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Locations of interest in Auckland (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several types of ‘contacts’: close plus contacts close contacts casual plus contacts, and casual contacts. The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- What you need to do depends if you are a close plus contact, close contact, casual plus contact or a casual contact. When you need to get tested if you're a contact (external link) --- Section Separator --- We anticipate a high demand at COVID-19 testing sites and delays are possible, so please be patient. Frontline staff are working hard to ensure everyone who needs to be tested gets a test as soon as possible. Further information on community testing station hours is available on the Auckland Regional Public Health Service website. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) --- Section Separator --- Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who have been advised to self-isolate and who cannot work from home. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) Learn more about financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently – follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland
How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters and signs. --- Section Separator --- How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters and signs.
Help people keep track of where they’ve been. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 1. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 2. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 3. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Help people keep track of where they’ve been. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 1. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 2. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 3. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
Home Business, work and money Business Toolkit --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes — All Alert Levels [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes — All Alert Levels [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Business Employment Training and apprenticeships Financial support Business Toolkit
Home Business, work and money Business Business helpline and resources --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to government business support advice on what Alert Levels mean for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) This guidance does not specifically address the upcoming COVID-19 immunisation programme, but you can sign up to get notified when guidance becomes available. Get updates on the COVID-19 immunisation programme's implications for employment (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to government business support advice on what Alert Levels mean for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) This guidance does not specifically address the upcoming COVID-19 immunisation programme, but you can sign up to get notified when guidance becomes available. Get updates on the COVID-19 immunisation programme's implications for employment (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. All people on-site should sign in using either the QR code or an alternative contact tracing system. This includes employees, customers and other visitors. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. People who sign in with the NZ COVID Tracer app don’t need to use an alternative system. All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential contact. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record, like: an electronic system, like a tablet sign-in app, work time-sheets or an existing booking system a simple pen and paper register using individual slips and a ballot box for storage an employee records visitors' details. We recommend that records include the person’s name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Whatever you use, it’s important that everyone’s personal details are collected, kept and used in a way that protects their privacy. Previous visitors’ records should not be visible to other visitors. Unsecured personal information exposes people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. Keep these records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it’s necessary for contact tracing. The purpose of the collection is to help the Ministry of Health to contact a person in the event of a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. You should only ask for name, phone number and the date and time of visit. When collecting this information, tell people that it’s being collected to support contact tracing. It’s your responsibility to store any private information securely, and it can only be used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you wish. Contact tracing register — for staff to record visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] A page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You’ll need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. --- Section Separator --- All people on-site should sign in using either the QR code or an alternative contact tracing system. This includes employees, customers and other visitors. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. People who sign in with the NZ COVID Tracer app don’t need to use an alternative system. --- Section Separator --- All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential contact. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record, like: an electronic system, like a tablet sign-in app, work time-sheets or an existing booking system a simple pen and paper register using individual slips and a ballot box for storage an employee records visitors' details. We recommend that records include the person’s name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Whatever you use, it’s important that everyone’s personal details are collected, kept and used in a way that protects their privacy. Previous visitors’ records should not be visible to other visitors. Unsecured personal information exposes people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. Keep these records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it’s necessary for contact tracing. The purpose of the collection is to help the Ministry of Health to contact a person in the event of a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. You should only ask for name, phone number and the date and time of visit. When collecting this information, tell people that it’s being collected to support contact tracing. It’s your responsibility to store any private information securely, and it can only be used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: --- Section Separator --- This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. --- Section Separator --- You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you wish. Contact tracing register — for staff to record visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] A page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You’ll need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: wash their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and dry thoroughly cough and sneeze into their elbow keep surfaces clean. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers where handwashing facilities are not easily available, for example at entrances to your workplace. Ensure your workplace is cleaned frequently, especially counters, tables, desks, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and other high-touch surfaces. Where possible, avoid sharing tools and personal objects, for example pens or phones. If you need to share items, try and clean or sanitise them between uses, for example with disinfectant wipes. Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: rearranging your workplace to support distance between people allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. You should discuss any changes with your employees first. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. --- Section Separator --- Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. --- Section Separator --- Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: wash their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and dry thoroughly cough and sneeze into their elbow keep surfaces clean. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers where handwashing facilities are not easily available, for example at entrances to your workplace. Ensure your workplace is cleaned frequently, especially counters, tables, desks, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and other high-touch surfaces. Where possible, avoid sharing tools and personal objects, for example pens or phones. If you need to share items, try and clean or sanitise them between uses, for example with disinfectant wipes. --- Section Separator --- Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. --- Section Separator --- There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: rearranging your workplace to support distance between people allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. You should discuss any changes with your employees first. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: complying with general Alert Level 2 settings displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster and having alternative contact tracing systems. Supermarkets, petrol stations and transport stations only need alternative systems to record workers. maintaining hygiene measures, including physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces, and fulfilling all other health and safety obligations. Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they’re waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other collateral Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: complying with general Alert Level 2 settings displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster and having alternative contact tracing systems. Supermarkets, petrol stations and transport stations only need alternative systems to record workers. maintaining hygiene measures, including physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces, and fulfilling all other health and safety obligations. Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they’re waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster --- Section Separator --- You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other collateral --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If your business requires close physical contact it cannot operate. We recommend staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend you make sure that people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they’re sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. We recommend other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, be used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff work from home if they can. We recommend businesses self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We recommend delivery or pick-up should also be contactless. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can operate under Alert Level 3. Any business providing necessities should minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but we recommend not allowing customers consuming these onsite. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. All goods can be delivered, including food. We recommend the delivery be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other collateral Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your business requires close physical contact it cannot operate. We recommend staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend you make sure that people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they’re sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. We recommend other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, be used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff work from home if they can. We recommend businesses self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We recommend delivery or pick-up should also be contactless. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can operate under Alert Level 3. Any business providing necessities should minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but we recommend not allowing customers consuming these onsite. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. All goods can be delivered, including food. We recommend the delivery be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster --- Section Separator --- You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other collateral --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. There are 3 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you have previously used Business Connect to create your QR code posters or are in the process of doing this, you can still use it to reprint or add new locations for an existing business. Log in to Business Connect through RealMe (external link) All businesses and workplaces must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social, or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you have previously used Business Connect to create your QR code posters or are in the process of doing this, you can still use it to reprint or add new locations for an existing business. Log in to Business Connect through RealMe (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social, or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. --- Section Separator --- You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Help finding new employees --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work-readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work-readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. --- Section Separator --- Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation.
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for communities and clubs --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for businesses Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support COVID-19 financial support tool Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. --- Section Separator --- Temporary visas include a work visa, student visa or visitor visa. I am a New Zealand citizen or resident I am in New Zealand on a temporary visa
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool Wage subsidies will be available to support workers who are financially impacted by COVID-19. We will update this page as information becomes available. The Wage Subsidy March 2021 helps employers and self-employed people to continue to pay employees and protect jobs for businesses affected by the rise in Alert Levels on 28 February 2021. Your business needs to have a 40% decline in revenue over a 14-day period between 28 February and 21 March, compared with a typical 14-day period between 4 January and 14 February 2021. This wage subsidy is available to businesses throughout New Zealand. It will be paid for 2 weeks at the rate of: $585.80 a week for each full-time employee retained (20 hours a week or more) $350 a week for each part-time employee retained (less than 20 hours a week). You can’t get the Wage Subsidy for an employee for the period they're covered by a Leave Support Scheme or Short-Term Absence Payment. You can apply from 1pm on 4 March 2021. Payments start from 8 March 2021. Apply for the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase from Alert Level 1 for a week or more. It helps to cover wages and fixed costs. Businesses can apply through myIR until 22 March 2021 for support due to the 14 February Alert Level increase. It is available to all eligible businesses and organisations in New Zealand. Businesses can apply through myIR from 8 March 2021 for support due to the 28 February Alert Level increase. It is available to all eligible businesses and organisations in New Zealand. To be eligible for the payment, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or capital-raising ability over a 7 day period after the increased Alert Level, and meet other criteria. Eligible businesses can apply to receive the lesser of: $1,500 plus $400 per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee, up to a maximum of 50 FTEs, or 4 times (4x) the actual revenue drop experienced by the business. Businesses and organisations can apply for the payment each time it is activated, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria. Applications are open for 1 month after the return to Alert Level 1. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed or a sole trader. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. You can apply for the payment if your employees are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised you that: they have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises they can leave self-isolation they have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) they are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and they have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process they are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or they are, or they have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support payment is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. You can re-apply after this time if your employees still qualify. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If you applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) If commercial tenants and landlords of small-to-medium businesses have not been able to agree about rent arrangements during a lockdown period (Alert Levels 3 and 4), they can use the COVID-19 commercial lease dispute services to try to reach an agreement acceptable to both parties. The services are arbitration and mediation services to resolve commercial lease disputes due to COVID-19. Arbitration services will be subsidised up to $6,000 for each dispute. Mediation services will be fully funded, up to a value of $4,000 for each dispute. These services are available until 31 March 2021. Check if you’re eligible for these services, and apply through the Ministry of Justice (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- Wage subsidies will be available to support workers who are financially impacted by COVID-19. We will update this page as information becomes available. The Wage Subsidy March 2021 helps employers and self-employed people to continue to pay employees and protect jobs for businesses affected by the rise in Alert Levels on 28 February 2021. Your business needs to have a 40% decline in revenue over a 14-day period between 28 February and 21 March, compared with a typical 14-day period between 4 January and 14 February 2021. This wage subsidy is available to businesses throughout New Zealand. It will be paid for 2 weeks at the rate of: $585.80 a week for each full-time employee retained (20 hours a week or more) $350 a week for each part-time employee retained (less than 20 hours a week). You can’t get the Wage Subsidy for an employee for the period they're covered by a Leave Support Scheme or Short-Term Absence Payment. You can apply from 1pm on 4 March 2021. Payments start from 8 March 2021. Apply for the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase from Alert Level 1 for a week or more. It helps to cover wages and fixed costs. Businesses can apply through myIR until 22 March 2021 for support due to the 14 February Alert Level increase. It is available to all eligible businesses and organisations in New Zealand. Businesses can apply through myIR from 8 March 2021 for support due to the 28 February Alert Level increase. It is available to all eligible businesses and organisations in New Zealand. To be eligible for the payment, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or capital-raising ability over a 7 day period after the increased Alert Level, and meet other criteria. Eligible businesses can apply to receive the lesser of: $1,500 plus $400 per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee, up to a maximum of 50 FTEs, or 4 times (4x) the actual revenue drop experienced by the business. Businesses and organisations can apply for the payment each time it is activated, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria. Applications are open for 1 month after the return to Alert Level 1. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed or a sole trader. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. You can apply for the payment if your employees are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised you that: they have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises they can leave self-isolation they have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) they are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and they have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process they are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or they are, or they have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support payment is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. You can re-apply after this time if your employees still qualify. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If you applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. --- Section Separator --- Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- If commercial tenants and landlords of small-to-medium businesses have not been able to agree about rent arrangements during a lockdown period (Alert Levels 3 and 4), they can use the COVID-19 commercial lease dispute services to try to reach an agreement acceptable to both parties. The services are arbitration and mediation services to resolve commercial lease disputes due to COVID-19. Arbitration services will be subsidised up to $6,000 for each dispute. Mediation services will be fully funded, up to a value of $4,000 for each dispute. These services are available until 31 March 2021. Check if you’re eligible for these services, and apply through the Ministry of Justice (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for businesses Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) Wage subsidies will be available to support workers who are financially impacted by COVID-19. We will update this page as information becomes available. The Wage Subsidy March 2021 helps employers and self-employed people to continue to pay employees and protect jobs for businesses affected by the rise in Alert Levels on 28 February 2021. The business needs to have a 40% decline in revenue over a 14-day period between 28 February and 21 March, compared with a typical 14-day period between 4 January and 14 February 2021. This wage subsidy is available to businesses throughout New Zealand. It will be paid for 2 weeks at the rate of: $585.80 a week for each full-time employee retained (20 hours a week or more) $350 a week for each part-time employee retained (less than 20 hours a week). Your employer cannot get the Wage Subsidy for you for the period you're covered by a Leave Support Scheme or Short-Term Absence Payment. Your employer can apply from 1pm on 4 March 2021. Payments start from 8 March 2021. Apply for the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer can apply for the payment if you are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised them that : you have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises you can leave self-isolation you have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) you are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and you have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process you are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or you are, or you have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 I(as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how employers can apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If your employer applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) You could apply for the COVID-19 Income Relief Payment before 14 November 2020. It was to help you if you lost your job from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020 due to COVID-19. More information about the Income Relief Payment (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: residential mortgages agriculture loans, and SME loans. You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: there’s a need for it there’s a benefit to the borrower, and the lender thinks there’s a reasonable chance of that customer resuming payments when the deferral period ends. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Support is available for anyone who is a Close and Casual contact of a COVID-19 case. Work and Income provides a range of financial support to help workers affected by COVID-19 as Alert Levels change. Find out how Work and Income may be able to help you, even if you’re working. Download a PDF for information about support for Close and Casual Contacts of a COVID-19 case [PDF, 445 KB] --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wage subsidies will be available to support workers who are financially impacted by COVID-19. We will update this page as information becomes available. The Wage Subsidy March 2021 helps employers and self-employed people to continue to pay employees and protect jobs for businesses affected by the rise in Alert Levels on 28 February 2021. The business needs to have a 40% decline in revenue over a 14-day period between 28 February and 21 March, compared with a typical 14-day period between 4 January and 14 February 2021. This wage subsidy is available to businesses throughout New Zealand. It will be paid for 2 weeks at the rate of: $585.80 a week for each full-time employee retained (20 hours a week or more) $350 a week for each part-time employee retained (less than 20 hours a week). Your employer cannot get the Wage Subsidy for you for the period you're covered by a Leave Support Scheme or Short-Term Absence Payment. Your employer can apply from 1pm on 4 March 2021. Payments start from 8 March 2021. Apply for the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer can apply for the payment if you are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised them that : you have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises you can leave self-isolation you have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) you are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and you have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process you are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or you are, or you have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 I(as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how employers can apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If your employer applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) You could apply for the COVID-19 Income Relief Payment before 14 November 2020. It was to help you if you lost your job from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020 due to COVID-19. More information about the Income Relief Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: residential mortgages agriculture loans, and SME loans. You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: there’s a need for it there’s a benefit to the borrower, and the lender thinks there’s a reasonable chance of that customer resuming payments when the deferral period ends. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support is available for anyone who is a Close and Casual contact of a COVID-19 case. Work and Income provides a range of financial support to help workers affected by COVID-19 as Alert Levels change. Find out how Work and Income may be able to help you, even if you’re working. Download a PDF for information about support for Close and Casual Contacts of a COVID-19 case [PDF, 445 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for businesses Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ --- Section Separator --- If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: have a current temporary New Zealand visa that is not sponsored, for example a visitor visa, student visa or work visa are in financial hardship with no other means of support — money to buy a flight home does not count as support either: are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are taking all reasonable steps to find other means of support, including looking for work; consular assistance; or support from family, friends and organisations in NZ or overseas have a valid passport have a New Zealand bank account have an Inland Revenue (IRD) number. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit from 1 December 2020 to 28 February 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: have a current temporary New Zealand visa that is not sponsored, for example a visitor visa, student visa or work visa are in financial hardship with no other means of support — money to buy a flight home does not count as support either: are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are taking all reasonable steps to find other means of support, including looking for work; consular assistance; or support from family, friends and organisations in NZ or overseas have a valid passport have a New Zealand bank account have an Inland Revenue (IRD) number. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit from 1 December 2020 to 28 February 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for businesses Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain.
Home Business, work and money Employment Careers advice --- Section Separator --- Careers.govt.nz has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers.govt.nz can help with: building your CV using LinkedIn effectively interview preparation, including for remote interviews understanding which jobs and industries are in demand career prospects in different industries retraining opportunities navigating recruiter websites and job vacancies support after being made redundant. Careers.govt.nz has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19: Use the skill-matcher tool to get job ideas based on your skills. Check on your career journey and find resources to help you. Compare jobs from the jobs database. Build your CV online. Know Your CV — Careers.govt.nz (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers.govt.nz also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) To talk to someone at Careers.govt.nz, call 0800 601 301 from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: career information finding what you need on the website suggesting what to do next. You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Careers.govt.nz has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers.govt.nz can help with: building your CV using LinkedIn effectively interview preparation, including for remote interviews understanding which jobs and industries are in demand career prospects in different industries retraining opportunities navigating recruiter websites and job vacancies support after being made redundant. Careers.govt.nz has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19: Use the skill-matcher tool to get job ideas based on your skills. Check on your career journey and find resources to help you. Compare jobs from the jobs database. Build your CV online. Know Your CV — Careers.govt.nz (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers.govt.nz also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) To talk to someone at Careers.govt.nz, call 0800 601 301 from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: career information finding what you need on the website suggesting what to do next. You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business, work and money Employment Find a job --- Section Separator --- Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. --- Section Separator --- If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business, work and money Employment In-demand industries --- Section Separator --- There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: growing food dairy farming, and sheep and beef making those things into high value products and taking them to the world. There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: on the farm as a herd manager, milker or farm assistant with animals in the agri-business sector advising farmers enhancing the environment as an agri-scientist. You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: planting and managing native and exotic forests looking after the forest environment managing people and resources working with state-of-the-art technology operating multi-million dollar machines and equipment. There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: growing food dairy farming, and sheep and beef making those things into high value products and taking them to the world. There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) --- Section Separator --- Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: on the farm as a herd manager, milker or farm assistant with animals in the agri-business sector advising farmers enhancing the environment as an agri-scientist. You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) --- Section Separator --- Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: planting and managing native and exotic forests looking after the forest environment managing people and resources working with state-of-the-art technology operating multi-million dollar machines and equipment. There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find a job In-demand industries Careers advice
Home Business, work and money Training and apprenticeships --- Section Separator --- Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Primary industries, including agriculture, horticulture and viticulture, fisheries (including aquaculture) and forestry Construction, including building, plumbing and civil engineering Community support, including youth work, care for elderly, counselling and community health, including mental health and addiction support Manufacturing and mechanical engineering and technology Electrical engineering Road transport Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: necessary medical, dental or optical costs unforeseen flatting or family problems exceptionally high course-related costs a disability or temporary illness that prevents part-time or holiday employment a change to your employment situation additional costs incurred by studying off campus increased living costs such as power. To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) There is renewed support for tertiary education learners whose training or education has been disrupted. Applications have re-opened for the Technology Access Fund for Learners following recent changes in COVID-19 Alert Levels. The fund is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission. The fund aims to help tertiary education organisations support learners to continue to access tertiary education and training disrupted by COVID-19. More information about the fund and how tertiary education organisations can apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Primary industries, including agriculture, horticulture and viticulture, fisheries (including aquaculture) and forestry Construction, including building, plumbing and civil engineering Community support, including youth work, care for elderly, counselling and community health, including mental health and addiction support Manufacturing and mechanical engineering and technology Electrical engineering Road transport Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: necessary medical, dental or optical costs unforeseen flatting or family problems exceptionally high course-related costs a disability or temporary illness that prevents part-time or holiday employment a change to your employment situation additional costs incurred by studying off campus increased living costs such as power. To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is renewed support for tertiary education learners whose training or education has been disrupted. Applications have re-opened for the Technology Access Fund for Learners following recent changes in COVID-19 Alert Levels. The fund is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission. The fund aims to help tertiary education organisations support learners to continue to access tertiary education and training disrupted by COVID-19. More information about the fund and how tertiary education organisations can apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Business Employment Training and apprenticeships Financial support Business Toolkit
Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. Advice on education, shared custody, online safety and visiting whānau in aged residential care. --- Section Separator --- Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. Advice on education, shared custody, online safety and visiting whānau in aged residential care.
Home Everyday life Bars and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Eating out and getting takeaways safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home. Keep physical distance from people you do not know. We encourage wearing a face covering. Follow the establishment's safety measures. Wash your hands when you get home. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Seated — customers legally must be seated. Separated — keep at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Single server — each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. We recommend food outlets not accept orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it's ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only 1 person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method, like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you're using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed and dried your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers like personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after you use it. Do not wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you're waiting in a queue. Be respectful to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash and dry your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home. Keep physical distance from people you do not know. We encourage wearing a face covering. Follow the establishment's safety measures. Wash your hands when you get home. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Seated — customers legally must be seated. Separated — keep at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Single server — each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. --- Section Separator --- Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. We recommend food outlets not accept orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it's ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only 1 person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method, like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you're using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed and dried your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers like personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after you use it. Do not wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you're waiting in a queue. Be respectful to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash and dry your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Gatherings and events --- Section Separator --- Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. If you’re travelling from an Alert Level 2 region to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings or events, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster Use the events checklist to tick off actions to make summer unstoppable. Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga religious services community club and sport activities private functions like a birthday party or stag do. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries, and museums. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. If you’re travelling from an Alert Level 2 region to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings or events, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster Use the events checklist to tick off actions to make summer unstoppable. Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga religious services community club and sport activities private functions like a birthday party or stag do. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries, and museums. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. --- Section Separator --- Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. --- Section Separator --- In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. --- Section Separator --- If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Information for Māori You might be interested in: --- Section Separator --- Tāmaki Makaurau is at Alert Level 2. The rest of Aotearoa is at Alert Level 1. Maintaining our tikanga hauora and adhering to our relevant Alert Levels will help break any potential chains of transmission and prevent the spread of  COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Whānau can go to work and school if they aren’t māuiui. Kura, kōhanga and puna reo are open for our tamariki. Hui and gatherings are restricted to 100 people. Whānau are asked to check out the locations of interest to see if they need to stay home and get tested. Face coverings must be worn on buses, trains and domestic flights. Locations of interest (external link) Learn more about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Whānau can go to work and school if they aren’t māuiui. Kura, kōhanga and puna reo are open for our tamariki. There are no restrictions on hui and gatherings. Face coverings must be worn on buses, trains and domestic flights. Learn more about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 whānau and friends can connect, but restrictions are still in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place — for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends. Maintain physical distancing, including harirū and hongi Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- Iwi, hapū and Māori organisations have led decision-making in our communities to support and ensure whānau are safe and protected from any risk of COVID-19 transmission. This has included adjusting tikanga and cultural practices such as suspending harirū and hongi, kissing and hugging to maintain physical distance, and using tools such as video conferencing to support hui, tangihanga and wānanga. --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Wear face coverings on public transport, domestic flights and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded places.
Home Everyday life Information for Māori Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, contact a GP or Nurse Practitioner, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people can not maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people, and only for tangihanga or weddings. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It’s important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate hand washing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good hand washing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a GP, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer App for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer App QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, provided there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2 they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Requirements for gatherings and events At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that don’t require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you don’t live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, contact a GP or Nurse Practitioner, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people can not maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people, and only for tangihanga or weddings. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It’s important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate hand washing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good hand washing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a GP, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer App for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer App QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, provided there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2 they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Requirements for gatherings and events At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that don’t require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you don’t live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guidance for marae
Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services. Information such as rent increase freezes, moving house and maintenance guidance. Information such as mortgage payment deferrals, moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. --- Section Separator --- Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services. Information such as rent increase freezes, moving house and maintenance guidance. Information such as mortgage payment deferrals, moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation.
Home Everyday life Life at home Animal welfare --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. We recommend people sick with COVID-19 avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. This is based on international advice. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, we recommend animals are not moved off the property. Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, like at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must maintain physical distance from others. Riding is allowed, but we recommend doing it safely and as close to home as possible. We recommend not using shared facilities. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure you practise good hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be 1 measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Advice for farmers and agriculture businesses at Alert Level 3 (external link) Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . --- Section Separator --- If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. --- Section Separator --- There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. We recommend people sick with COVID-19 avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. This is based on international advice. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, we recommend animals are not moved off the property. --- Section Separator --- Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. --- Section Separator --- Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, like at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must maintain physical distance from others. Riding is allowed, but we recommend doing it safely and as close to home as possible. We recommend not using shared facilities. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure you practise good hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be 1 measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Advice for farmers and agriculture businesses at Alert Level 3 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Life at home Homeowners --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: residential mortgages agriculture loans, and SME loans. You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: there’s a need for it there’s a benefit to the borrower, and the lender thinks there’s a reasonable chance of that customer resuming payments when the deferral period ends. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: residential mortgages agriculture loans, and SME loans. You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: there’s a need for it there’s a benefit to the borrower, and the lender thinks there’s a reasonable chance of that customer resuming payments when the deferral period ends. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. --- Section Separator --- People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Life at home If you need help with accommodation --- Section Separator --- If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. If you’re leaving a managed isolation facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your managed isolation facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kāinga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009: Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say ‘youth client’ when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Crisisline on 0800 733 843 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 2Shine on 0508 744 633 , 9am to 11pm, 7 days a week Shakti International on 0800 742 584 if English is your second language. They’re available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. --- Section Separator --- If you’re leaving a managed isolation facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your managed isolation facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kāinga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009: Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say ‘youth client’ when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Crisisline on 0800 733 843 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 2Shine on 0508 744 633 , 9am to 11pm, 7 days a week Shakti International on 0800 742 584 if English is your second language. They’re available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Life at home Renters and landlords --- Section Separator --- The freeze on rent increases began on 26 March 2020 and meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. More details about rent increases on the Tenancy Services website (external link) People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- The freeze on rent increases began on 26 March 2020 and meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. More details about rent increases on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Life at home Waste collection --- Section Separator --- Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Put your disposable face covering or mask in a closed lidded bin, or put into a bag and seal it before putting into a rubbish bin or taking it home. After disposing of your face covering or mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you prefer, use hand sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use disposable face coverings or masks. Do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. Waste handling and kerbside collection workers will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for non-health workers (external link) Most districts will be operating their usual recycling services at Alert Level 1. Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Check your local council website for more information before visiting. Check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you can undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home at Alert Level 3, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 3 period has ended. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) --- Section Separator --- You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- Put your disposable face covering or mask in a closed lidded bin, or put into a bag and seal it before putting into a rubbish bin or taking it home. After disposing of your face covering or mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you prefer, use hand sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use disposable face coverings or masks. --- Section Separator --- Do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. --- Section Separator --- Waste handling and kerbside collection workers will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for non-health workers (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most districts will be operating their usual recycling services at Alert Level 1. Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) --- Section Separator --- Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) --- Section Separator --- Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Check your local council website for more information before visiting. Check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you can undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home at Alert Level 3, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 3 period has ended. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Make summer unstoppable This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. --- Section Separator --- Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. Unstoppable summer: a COVID-19 public service announcement (Original) Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (short version) --- Section Separator --- As New Zealanders we cherish our annual summer holidays. We all want an uninterrupted summer — uninterrupted by the weather and uninterrupted by COVID-19. While we cannot control the weather, we can control COVID-19. Here are four simple things we can all do to keep each other safe and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Scanning QR codes wherever you go is especially important when on holiday because you might not remember all the places you visit. Keep your phone handy to make scanning in quick and easy, especially when shops are crowded over Christmas and New Year. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. How to keep track of where you’ve been --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you’ve been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is great for large gatherings and events, like music festivals, when you’re surrounded by people you do not know. Bluetooth tracing does not replace the need to scan NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. When you turn on Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Do not travel or take part in activities if you’re unwell. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while on you’re on holiday, do not wait until you get home. Call Healthline or your doctor or Nurse Practitioner to see about getting a test. COVID-19 testing services will continue over the Christmas and New Year holiday period. If you’re away from home, you’ll still be able to access tests. By getting a test, you’re helping keep the community safe. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Scan QR codes Turn on Bluetooth tracing Stay home if you're sick Wash your hands Make raumati unstoppable Make raumati unstoppable — Stan Walker --- Section Separator --- Many of us will be travelling around New Zealand and going to big events this summer. Shops will be more crowded than usual, and we’ll be going to more social gatherings. Here are some things you can do over our first summer under COVID-19 conditions: Have your phone ready to make scanning QR codes quick and easy. You could pack a summer essentials bag if you’re travelling, with hand sanitiser, face coverings, cleaning products and a booklet for contact tracing. You never know what facilities will be available at the places you’re visiting. Keep some hand sanitiser in your pocket or bag. It’s a convenient way to keep your hands clean when you’re out and about. Shops and events can be very crowded at this time of year, but try and keep your distance from people you do not know. If you’re hosting a gathering for friends and whānau, create a QR code to help your guests keep track of where they’ve been. If you’re hosting a gathering, consider holding your event outdoors. The more space people have, the harder it is for COVID-19 to spread if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- Get resources to help your business or event make summer unstoppable. The resources include posters, templates, social media tiles and digital banners. Unstoppable summer toolkit
Home Everyday life Pacific Peoples --- Section Separator --- Watch the 28 February 2021 video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 18 February 2021 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 15 October 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 12 October 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 31 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 16 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 12 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: Dame Valerie Adams DNZM Dave Letele (Brown Buttabean) Diamond Langi Faumuina To'aletai David Tua ONZM Patrick Tuipulotu Lesina Nakhid-Schuster. They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Key contact: Ana Aitcheson Phone number: 0800 366 648 The Fono Facebook (external link) Key contact: Maliena Jones Phone number: 09 826 5427 or 021 845 535 The Village Community Services Trust Facebook (external link) Key contact: John Kiria Phone number: 021 023 77746 Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Prepare Pacific (external link) Health Promotion Agency (external link) The Fono (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from home (external link) Work and Income benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Watch the 28 February 2021 video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 18 February 2021 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 15 October 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 12 October 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 31 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 16 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 12 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: Dame Valerie Adams DNZM Dave Letele (Brown Buttabean) Diamond Langi Faumuina To'aletai David Tua ONZM Patrick Tuipulotu Lesina Nakhid-Schuster. They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Key contact: Ana Aitcheson Phone number: 0800 366 648 The Fono Facebook (external link) Key contact: Maliena Jones Phone number: 09 826 5427 or 021 845 535 The Village Community Services Trust Facebook (external link) Key contact: John Kiria Phone number: 021 023 77746 Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Prepare Pacific (external link) Health Promotion Agency (external link) The Fono (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from home (external link) Work and Income benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online. Information for visiting friends or whānau in an Aged Residential Care (ARC) facility. --- Section Separator --- Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online. Information for visiting friends or whānau in an Aged Residential Care (ARC) facility.
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers and whānau Education --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz At Alert Level 1, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are physically open for all age groups. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 2, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are physically open for all age groups. Extra public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school – for example, where students are required to self-isolate. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) (external link) Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at their service or school, or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 3, children and young people should learn from home. Any child who can’t be supervised at home by an appropriate person can attend their service or school. A wide range of businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 3, which means that parents and caregivers may be required to go to work, rather than work from or stay at home. Services and schools must be open for children in these situations to attend. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Home-based early learning services can open with a maximum number of 4 licensed children, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Distance learning will be provided for all students who are off-site, including those who have to self-isolate or who health authorities have asked to stay away while waiting for a test result. Distance learning support and resources (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) All teaching and other activities should be done remotely, wherever possible. Where it is not possible to deliver teaching online, some facilities may provide education services if Alert level 3 guidelines are followed. Any class or workshop that cannot be delivered online and remains open must be limited to 20 people or less. Each such group is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Face coverings are recommended for tertiary students and staff when attending on-site activities. Ministry of Education – COVID-19 i nformation and advice (external link) COVID-19 bulletins for tertiary education providers and students (external link) --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. --- Section Separator --- If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are physically open for all age groups. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are physically open for all age groups. Extra public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school – for example, where students are required to self-isolate. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) (external link) Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at their service or school, or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, children and young people should learn from home. Any child who can’t be supervised at home by an appropriate person can attend their service or school. A wide range of businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 3, which means that parents and caregivers may be required to go to work, rather than work from or stay at home. Services and schools must be open for children in these situations to attend. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Home-based early learning services can open with a maximum number of 4 licensed children, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Distance learning will be provided for all students who are off-site, including those who have to self-isolate or who health authorities have asked to stay away while waiting for a test result. Distance learning support and resources (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) All teaching and other activities should be done remotely, wherever possible. Where it is not possible to deliver teaching online, some facilities may provide education services if Alert level 3 guidelines are followed. Any class or workshop that cannot be delivered online and remains open must be limited to 20 people or less. Each such group is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Face coverings are recommended for tertiary students and staff when attending on-site activities. --- Section Separator --- Ministry of Education – COVID-19 i nformation and advice (external link) COVID-19 bulletins for tertiary education providers and students (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers and whānau Online safety --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about tools like filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) You may be watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse, and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about tools like filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may be watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse, and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers and whānau Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility --- Section Separator --- During all COVID-19 Alert Levels, visits to ARC facilities will be restricted. It is important that facilities take extra precautions to ensure people in their care are safe. This is particularly important for those who are more at risk of infection and severe illness. At all Alert Levels, if you visit a facility: You may be screened for your health before you enter. Wash and dry your hands frequently, cough into your elbow, do not touch your face. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, add a manual entry to your digital diary or sign in manually. You cannot enter a facility if you: are a probable or confirmed case of COVID-19 are a close contact of a COVID-19 case have symptoms of COVID-19. During Alert Level 1, visits will be allowed. Providers may continue to take some extra precautions to reduce the risk to the residents and staff. Contact the provider to discuss your visit. Formal visiting hours may remain in place. Remember to follow the Alert Level 1 guidelines. This includes: washing and drying your hands coughing into your elbow not touching your face keeping a record of where you’ve been. During Alert Level 2, visits will be allowed. Providers will take precautions and manage visits in a controlled way. This will minimise the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to residents and staff. Visits may be limited to designated visitors. There may be a limit on the number of designated visitors at one time. Check with the provider before organising a visit. Lengths of visits and visiting areas will be determined by the provider. They will consider the resident’s health, preference, and the number of appointments the facility already has. Health screening and assessment of visitors will be completed before entering the facility. Visitors must follow infection prevention and control measures. This includes hand hygiene, physical distancing and appropriate use of PPE. --- Section Separator --- During all COVID-19 Alert Levels, visits to ARC facilities will be restricted. It is important that facilities take extra precautions to ensure people in their care are safe. This is particularly important for those who are more at risk of infection and severe illness. --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, if you visit a facility: You may be screened for your health before you enter. Wash and dry your hands frequently, cough into your elbow, do not touch your face. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, add a manual entry to your digital diary or sign in manually. You cannot enter a facility if you: are a probable or confirmed case of COVID-19 are a close contact of a COVID-19 case have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- During Alert Level 1, visits will be allowed. Providers may continue to take some extra precautions to reduce the risk to the residents and staff. Contact the provider to discuss your visit. Formal visiting hours may remain in place. Remember to follow the Alert Level 1 guidelines. This includes: washing and drying your hands coughing into your elbow not touching your face keeping a record of where you’ve been. --- Section Separator --- During Alert Level 2, visits will be allowed. Providers will take precautions and manage visits in a controlled way. This will minimise the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to residents and staff. Visits may be limited to designated visitors. There may be a limit on the number of designated visitors at one time. Check with the provider before organising a visit. Lengths of visits and visiting areas will be determined by the provider. They will consider the resident’s health, preference, and the number of appointments the facility already has. Health screening and assessment of visitors will be completed before entering the facility. Visitors must follow infection prevention and control measures. This includes hand hygiene, physical distancing and appropriate use of PPE. --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Religious communities --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you do not need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you do not need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. --- Section Separator --- Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
How to shop safely, including advice about getting groceries delivered, and what to do if you suspect price gouging. Advice for accessing goods and services, such as food shopping, healthcare, waste collection and vets. Support available if you need help getting groceries and other essential supplies. --- Section Separator --- How to shop safely, including advice about getting groceries delivered, and what to do if you suspect price gouging. Advice for accessing goods and services, such as food shopping, healthcare, waste collection and vets. Support available if you need help getting groceries and other essential supplies.
Home Everyday life Shopping Accessing goods and services --- Section Separator --- These goods and services are available at all Alert Levels: Food Medicine Healthcare Energy Fuel Waste collection Internet Financial support Supermarkets and dairies are open at all Alert Levels. Supermarket websites tell you if they have online shopping available for everyone. If they are reserving online shopping for sick or at-risk people, we recommending you go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Doctors, hospitals and pharmacies are open at all Alert Levels. Call your doctor before you visit. How to access healthcare If you need help, there is financial support available. This includes help with financial hardship from Work and Income and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection Funeral directors will continue working at all Alert Levels. The rules for funerals and tangihanga are different for each Alert Level. Information about funerals and tangihanga at different Alert Levels Veterinary services are available at all Alert Levels. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) --- Section Separator --- These goods and services are available at all Alert Levels: Food Medicine Healthcare Energy Fuel Waste collection Internet Financial support --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets and dairies are open at all Alert Levels. Supermarket websites tell you if they have online shopping available for everyone. If they are reserving online shopping for sick or at-risk people, we recommending you go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely --- Section Separator --- Doctors, hospitals and pharmacies are open at all Alert Levels. Call your doctor before you visit. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need help, there is financial support available. This includes help with financial hardship from Work and Income and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors will continue working at all Alert Levels. The rules for funerals and tangihanga are different for each Alert Level. Information about funerals and tangihanga at different Alert Levels --- Section Separator --- Veterinary services are available at all Alert Levels. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing goods and services If you cannot get essential supplies
Home Everyday life Shopping If you cannot get essential supplies --- Section Separator --- If you need food, there are a number of ways to get help. You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You don’t need to be an existing Work and Income client. Call 0800 559 009 Go to MyMSD (external link) If your situation is urgent and you need food within the next 24 to 48 hours, you can contact a local food bank. The Ministry of Social Development is helping fund these. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) Support may be available to get food delivered if you can’t leave your home. You can make: online orders and arrangements through local supermarkets and their priority assistance service arrangements with family and friends to pick up food. If this is not possible, you can also seek assistance through community groups, food banks, social service or health providers. Contact details for these groups on the Family Services Directory (external link) If you also need financial assistance, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand Work and Income may be able to help you pay for groceries or goods, if you’re on a low income or a benefit. Find out how Work and Income can help (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need food, there are a number of ways to get help. You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You don’t need to be an existing Work and Income client. Call 0800 559 009 Go to MyMSD (external link) If your situation is urgent and you need food within the next 24 to 48 hours, you can contact a local food bank. The Ministry of Social Development is helping fund these. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) Support may be available to get food delivered if you can’t leave your home. You can make: online orders and arrangements through local supermarkets and their priority assistance service arrangements with family and friends to pick up food. If this is not possible, you can also seek assistance through community groups, food banks, social service or health providers. Contact details for these groups on the Family Services Directory (external link) If you also need financial assistance, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Work and Income may be able to help you pay for groceries or goods, if you’re on a low income or a benefit. Find out how Work and Income can help (external link) --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing goods and services If you cannot get essential supplies
Home Everyday life Shopping Shopping safely --- Section Separator --- If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. Supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations, pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you cannot get essential supplies Wash your hands before and after you shop. You are encouraged to wear a face covering. Bring clean reusable shopping bags. If the business allows you to bring your own food containers, make sure they are clean and wipe them down when you get home. Try to limit the number of people from your household that are going to shop, as it will make physical distancing easier while you’re shopping. Try not to spend a long time in the shop. Shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers — helping you maintain physical distance. If you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down the trolley or basket handles. Only touch what you intend to buy. If you can, use a contactless payment method like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you’re using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed your hands. Bag goods and groceries away from others if you can. Be respectful to employees and fellow shoppers. The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, we recommend going to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. We recommend following the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations, pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you cannot get essential supplies --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands before and after you shop. You are encouraged to wear a face covering. Bring clean reusable shopping bags. If the business allows you to bring your own food containers, make sure they are clean and wipe them down when you get home. Try to limit the number of people from your household that are going to shop, as it will make physical distancing easier while you’re shopping. Try not to spend a long time in the shop. Shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers — helping you maintain physical distance. If you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down the trolley or basket handles. Only touch what you intend to buy. If you can, use a contactless payment method like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you’re using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed your hands. Bag goods and groceries away from others if you can. Be respectful to employees and fellow shoppers. --- Section Separator --- The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. --- Section Separator --- Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, we recommend going to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. We recommend following the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. --- Section Separator --- Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing goods and services If you cannot get essential supplies
How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand.
Home Everyday life Support your community Buy local to support locals --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Everyday life Support your community Community heroes Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- David Dewhurst is one of 80 volunteers who made up the QLDC COVID-19 Emergency Response Team from March to June 2020. With COVID-19 shutting our borders and businesses, thousands, mostly migrants, were out of work, unable to pay for groceries and rent, and ineligible for government support. Elderly and vulnerable community members were unable to shop safely to get essential groceries and medication. Anxiety rose, mental health and well-being suffered; the community responded. From March 24 to June 30, 23,342 requests for emergency support were submitted by 7,377 people living in the Queenstown Lakes area (population 39,153). Volunteers worked unpaid on a two-days on, two-days off roster to make hundreds of calls to people who had submitted requests for support. Through a rigorous needs assessment system, thousands of people were able to access the Civil Defence-funded supermarket voucher scheme to get food. Volunteers also responded to requests for accommodation, financial support, mental health assistance, assistance with pets, and language help. The QLDC Emergency Response Team was a semi-finalist in the Mitre 10 NZ Community of the Year 2021 awards (external link) . Watch David’s story (external link) --- Section Separator --- Manish Pandey is the vice president of Christchurch Multicultural Council. During the lockdown, Manish, in association with the Indian High Commission and community groups, assisted international students and new migrant families get access to food and other essentials. He also helped by translating official COVID-19 advice and news for the Indian community. Manish is a volunteer for the Office of Ethnic Communities as information facilitator on its Multilingual Information Network, working with OEC to help share important government information - ensuring New Zealand’s ethnic communities receive material in languages and ways that work for them. --- Section Separator --- Sikh temples around New Zealand responded to the national lockdown and the Alert Level 3 changes by distributing thousands of food parcels to hungry people. The Supreme Sikh Society observed that as the national lockdown continued last year, an increasing number of people were struggling to get access to food. During this time, the society estimated its temples distributed free meals and food parcels to 66,000 families from Auckland to Queenstown. For this work, the Society received the New Zealand Food Heroes People’s Choice Award in 2020. The award acknowledged: “The scale and compassion to vulnerable communities by the Supreme Sikh Society is impressive. Their timely and valuable response to the challenges of COVID show a dedication to the greater good.” In Auckland, Counties Manukau Police classified the Sikh temple in Takanini as an essential service provider where its Sikh volunteers even ensured a contactless system for collecting food where drivers were asked to drive in one gate, open their boot for a volunteer to load the parcel, before driving out through another gate. Sikh society wins prestigious award for service to community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Allen Lim is a horticulturalist at Jade Garden in the Selwyn District, near Christchurch. During lockdown last year when wholesale suppliers were shut, he donated vegetables to community food banks which were running out of food. He and his group of tramping friends had come up with the idea to supply food banks because they were aware of the food shortages. He says he couldn’t have done without his tramping group who helped to get the produce out of the ground because although there was a surplus of produce, he was struggling to keep up with the demand from the supermarkets at the time. --- Section Separator --- Rozina Shaheen, known as Tooba Habib, originally from Pakistan, moved to Christchurch in 2007. She is a well-known community leader and volunteer among Canterbury’s ethnic communities and is the women’s coordinator of Muslim Association of Canterbury. Tooba spent last year helping some of the 15 March Christchurch terror attack victims but also provided support and coordination for international students and their families left isolated in New Zealand because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She helped these families get access to financial assistance as part of her ‘Support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ’ programme. Tooba is grateful for the kind hearts of New Zealanders who provided emotional and financial support to those in the community who are in need. --- Section Separator --- Eva Chen is an Auckland Council Ethnicity Peoples Advisory Panel member and a Strategies for Kids, Information for Parents (SKIP) Champion with Oranga Tamariki’s SKIP programme working with immigrant communities. Eva co-founded the Wellbeing Charitable Trust which has been working with Asian communities since 2014. She led a COVID-19 support programme to help ensure that New Zealand’s Chinese communities had access to official COVID-19 information. Just before lockdown, Eva set up the Mt Albert Chinese business support group to ensure people remained connected and supported. A key aim was to prevent family harm during a stressful time. She helped provide daily COVID-19 information updates in Chinese. Since July 2020, her group has focused on post-COVID-19 support for individuals and families, helping with the consequences of bullying and racism. Wellbeing Charitable Trust (external link) --- Section Separator --- Narinder Singh Warraich, originally from northern India, is the president of the Canterbury Punjabi Association. During the national lockdown, Narinder and his team assisted international students, stranded visitors and new migrant families by distributing food and face masks. He translated COVID-19 advice and news and used community radio and social media to keep the community informed. After the lockdown, Narinder took the initiative of organising workshops for people who had lost their jobs. One job fair attracted over 120 participants and connected unemployed people to Work and Income Work Brokers. Christchurch City MP Dr Duncan Webb acknowledged the work of the Association with a Members’ motion in Parliament on 26 May 2020, asking the House to “express its gratitude to the Canterbury Punjabi Association for the outstanding work it did over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown in supporting both its own community and the wider Canterbury community by the provision of free food parcels to anyone in need, in keeping with the best Punjabi tradition of daswandh and selfless service”. --- Section Separator --- Jane Potts is a St John Volunteer Ambulance Officer in Darfield. She attended ambulance callouts at any time of the day or night through all Alert Levels during the lockdown. This was unpaid. It required her to leave her safety bubble in order to save lives. Jane was awarded a Selwyn District Council COVID Heroes Award for her selfless dedication and professionalism to the community. --- Section Separator --- Jessica Phuang led her police team of 11 ethnic liaison officers to ensure that ethnic communities did not become victims of scams or racism. They gathered feedback on challenges faced in dealing with different government agencies, and to give advice and suggestions to those agencies on how to meet the needs of these communities. The team also linked ethnic communities to appropriate service providers and helped keep them updated with COVID-19 news. Through some ethnic social media channels, they were able to counteract misinformation and co-opt these channels to work with police. The team also contacted international students and tourists stranded in New Zealand without support to ensure that they were getting assistance. --- Section Separator --- Russ Carroll was a key person in the supply line of essential goods for delivery to workers and communities. During lockdown, he managed the delivery of thousands of online orders made by New Zealanders isolating in their homes. His motivated team worked long hours during a time of great uncertainty. Physical distancing rules had to be implemented together with a lane system to allow staff to get around the shop safely and efficiently. Workers would handpick products, pack stock and process orders, dealing with up to 2,500 packages a day. Russ is grateful for the support he received from the company, which in turn meant he could offer the best support for his team during an unprecedented time. --- Section Separator --- Vincents Art Workshop is a Wellington social service that welcomes people with disabilities, those moving into the community from institutions, the unemployed, people on low incomes and others. During lockdown and throughout 2020, its tutors provided connections and activities for its community of artists. The Vincents Artist Group on Facebook grew to 188 members. Staff published tutorials on its Facebook page, website, YouTube and on the Arts Access Aotearoa Facebook page to keep its artists busy. Tutors were careful to suggest using art materials that were commonly available at home or in people’s gardens. Regular communication with all its artists was vital to keep everyone connected and safe. Staff often held phone conversations with artists, their family members or support people when there were concerns about some artists’ anxiety levels. The Vincents team continues to work with a focus on contact tracing and hygiene to protect its community. Vincents Art Workshop (external link) --- Section Separator --- With the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan Association acted quickly to share awareness and safety information. It initiated regular Facebook Live and Zoom meetings to help its 10,000 community members. These initiatives were expanded to wider communities to work collaboratively in other areas like child and elder welfare. Association members, including doctors, clinical nurses, health workers, emergency specialist nurses, pharmacists and mental health support workers, were able to respond to COVID-19-related enquiries from its members. Volunteers also mobilised in South Auckland, distributing free food parcels and personal protective equipment (PPE) to people in need irrespective of religious affiliation or ethnicity. The Association also helped in situations requiring end-of-life care, funerals, burials and emergencies during lockdown. Pakistan Association of New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Gatluak, originally from South Sudan, is a community advocate at the Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (ARCC). He’s the voice of forced migrant background communities (communities that lived as refugees in other countries and resettled here). In 2020, Gatluak shared COVID-19 information from the Ministry of Health with Sudanese community leaders and families in the US, Norway, France, UK, Denmark, Finland, Canada, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Egypt. He translated and relayed information to combat misinformation in Sudanese communities where accurate information was hard to access. During lockdowns in the Auckland region, he distributed face masks and food parcels to many Auckland communities, and used ARCC video and radio to broadcast messages of health and wellbeing. Find out more about Gatluak’s story (external link) Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (external link) --- Section Separator --- Tam is the President of Lakes District Multicultural Council (LDMC) and founder of the charity Baskets of Blessing.  During the lockdown last year, she initiated a migrant needs assessment survey to find out how to best support migrants. The survey results were shared with other South Island community groups and used to identify needs and gaps in the community. LDMC also delivered grocery and pharmacy vouchers and arranged for medical appointments for those who could not afford them. This summer, Tam’s work is focused on the rollout of various initiatives to support vulnerable groups, including providing COVID-19 information, distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), delivering self-care and wellness kits to those who are isolated or lonely, organising opportunities for connection for migrants and working with other groups to build community resilience. Lakes District Multicultural Council Facebook page (external link) Baskets of Blessing (external link) --- Section Separator --- Hero is the co-ordinator of ‘Toranj’, a fortnightly Plains FM radio programme and podcast in the Farsi language of the Iranian community. During the nationwide lockdown last year, Hero and the Christchurch Iranian Society team translated information and gave daily COVID-19 updates. This was critical at a time when ‘infodemic’ (or ‘fake news’) had become a serious obstacle to getting government-sanctioned science-based pandemic information. The Christchurch Iranian Society set up online classes to provide opportunities for people with limited English to learn new skills and/or pick up a hobby while the country navigated through the different Alert Levels. The programmes included yoga classes, cooking and photography — each given by qualified members of the Iranian community in New Zealand. Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alfie is a Plains FM broadcaster and producer of the Tagalog language programme Kabayan Radio for the Filipino community in Canterbury. His programme is also broadcast on Radio Southland in Invercargill. Over lockdown, Alfie broadcast important COVID-19 messages on Facebook Live from his garage and recorded and sent in another programme for Plains FM to broadcast weekly which included key messages from the Unite against COVID website. Alfie is continuing to broadcast his radio programme, giving advice and assistance to the Filipino community, including reminders on keeping safe from COVID-19. Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- James Roque, an Auckland-based comedian and writer who describes himself as the Filipino stepson of New Zealand comedy, was the face of the Human Rights Commission and the Office of Ethnic Communities’ Racism Is No Joke campaign. James was featured in a series of short videos discussing racist jokes, and why they are not OK. The Racism Is No Joke campaign was launched in July 2020 as a specific response to racism towards Chinese and other Asian people in New Zealand because of COVID-19. Using humour and insights from his own experience as the second generation of a Filipino migrant family, James sought to influence New Zealanders and increase public awareness of racial discrimination and its negative impact on Asian communities living here. James Roque's website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. --- Section Separator --- The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. --- Section Separator --- Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link) --- Section Separator --- Lepou was a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Sadly, Lepou recently passed away but her team is intent on carrying on the good works and service that she brought to her community. Listen to Samoa Feso’ota’i at Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe. --- Section Separator --- The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link)
Home Everyday life Support your community Community wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Everyday life Support your community See your own backyard --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, getting tested and what happens if you test positive. Safe and effective vaccines are an essential part of how we protect New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours from COVID-19. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. --- Section Separator --- Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, getting tested and what happens if you test positive. Safe and effective vaccines are an essential part of how we protect New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours from COVID-19. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed.
What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19, including going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there and when you can safely return home. --- Section Separator --- What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19, including going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there and when you can safely return home.
The teams working on the vaccination rollout are separate to those who are responding to any community outbreaks of COVID-19. The roll out of the vaccination programme to MIQ and the border workforce is progressing well, and we don’t expect any slow-down as a result of the change in Alert Levels. --- Section Separator --- The Government is making sure New Zealand has a range of options, so we can get the right vaccines and support our Pacific neighbours. Before any vaccine is approved for use in New Zealand, it must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. We are expecting enough vaccines for everyone in New Zealand. They will be free and voluntary for the general public. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout. --- Section Separator --- The Government is making sure New Zealand has a range of options, so we can get the right vaccines and support our Pacific neighbours. Before any vaccine is approved for use in New Zealand, it must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. We are expecting enough vaccines for everyone in New Zealand. They will be free and voluntary for the general public. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Getting a COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We are expecting enough vaccines for everyone in New Zealand. We are also buying vaccines for people in the Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau, Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu. COVID-19 vaccines will be free and voluntary for the general public. They will be available for everyone in New Zealand, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. The first group to be vaccinated are border workers, people working in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facilities, and their household contacts. This is because they are most at risk of getting COVID-19. Border and MIQ workers include: cleaners nurses who do MIQ health checks security staff customs and border officials airline staff hotel workers. Household contacts include anyone over 16 who lives full-time or part-time with a border or MIQ worker. It also covers papakāinga and other shared communal living arrangements. More information for border and MIQ workers (external link) We don’t have any evidence yet that the vaccine will stop transmission of the virus. To reduce the risk of people with a connection to the border getting COVID-19, we are offering the vaccine to both border workers and their household contacts. We will continue to carry out regular testing of our border and MIQ workforce. Between March and June we expect to be able to offer vaccines to the next at-risk workforce. Non-border frontline healthcare workers include people like general practitioners, pharmacists and people working in our testing centres. We then expect to shift the focus of the immunisation programme to include a broader range of at-risk people, such as other health workforces, older adults, and those with a relevant underlying health condition. We expect to start vaccinations for the general public in the second half of 2021. We’re looking for extra vaccinators to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. If you’re a retired health professional or not currently working in the health workforce and want to volunteer, visit the Ministry of Health's website to register your interest. Register your interest in being a vaccinator (external link) At this stage, it isn’t clear how the availability of vaccines here and around the world will influence changes to New Zealand's border controls. We know the vaccines protect individuals from the effects of the virus. However, it is too early for researchers to confirm whether a vaccinated person could still transmit COVID-19 to someone else. Until we know for sure, we need to keep our current border settings. The 4 vaccines we have secured are going through the approval process at different times. So far, the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine is the only vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements You will not have a choice about which vaccine you receive. The Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine has been approved by the Government for use in people 16 years and older . About the vaccines we're using The best protection for everyone in New Zealand is to protect those who are most at-risk of infection. Who we vaccinate first will only change if our situation changes – for example, if there is widespread community transmission. We’re working in partnership with Māori to make sure we uphold Te Tiriti o Waitangi principles while developing and delivering the programme. We will never ask you to pay for the COVID-19 vaccine or to secure your place in a queue. If you are asked — by email or SMS, for example — it's probably a scam. If you are aware of a COVID-19 vaccine-related scam, report it to CERT NZ. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam to CERT NZ (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- We are expecting enough vaccines for everyone in New Zealand. We are also buying vaccines for people in the Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau, Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu. COVID-19 vaccines will be free and voluntary for the general public. They will be available for everyone in New Zealand, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. --- Section Separator --- The first group to be vaccinated are border workers, people working in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facilities, and their household contacts. This is because they are most at risk of getting COVID-19. Border and MIQ workers include: cleaners nurses who do MIQ health checks security staff customs and border officials airline staff hotel workers. Household contacts include anyone over 16 who lives full-time or part-time with a border or MIQ worker. It also covers papakāinga and other shared communal living arrangements. More information for border and MIQ workers (external link) We don’t have any evidence yet that the vaccine will stop transmission of the virus. To reduce the risk of people with a connection to the border getting COVID-19, we are offering the vaccine to both border workers and their household contacts. We will continue to carry out regular testing of our border and MIQ workforce. Between March and June we expect to be able to offer vaccines to the next at-risk workforce. Non-border frontline healthcare workers include people like general practitioners, pharmacists and people working in our testing centres. We then expect to shift the focus of the immunisation programme to include a broader range of at-risk people, such as other health workforces, older adults, and those with a relevant underlying health condition. We expect to start vaccinations for the general public in the second half of 2021. --- Section Separator --- We’re looking for extra vaccinators to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. If you’re a retired health professional or not currently working in the health workforce and want to volunteer, visit the Ministry of Health's website to register your interest. Register your interest in being a vaccinator (external link) --- Section Separator --- At this stage, it isn’t clear how the availability of vaccines here and around the world will influence changes to New Zealand's border controls. We know the vaccines protect individuals from the effects of the virus. However, it is too early for researchers to confirm whether a vaccinated person could still transmit COVID-19 to someone else. Until we know for sure, we need to keep our current border settings. --- Section Separator --- The 4 vaccines we have secured are going through the approval process at different times. So far, the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine is the only vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements You will not have a choice about which vaccine you receive. The Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine has been approved by the Government for use in people 16 years and older . About the vaccines we're using --- Section Separator --- The best protection for everyone in New Zealand is to protect those who are most at-risk of infection. Who we vaccinate first will only change if our situation changes – for example, if there is widespread community transmission. We’re working in partnership with Māori to make sure we uphold Te Tiriti o Waitangi principles while developing and delivering the programme. --- Section Separator --- We will never ask you to pay for the COVID-19 vaccine or to secure your place in a queue. If you are asked — by email or SMS, for example — it's probably a scam. If you are aware of a COVID-19 vaccine-related scam, report it to CERT NZ. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam to CERT NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy Making sure COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective Getting a COVID-19 vaccine About the vaccines we're using About the vaccines we're using COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Getting a COVID-19 vaccine About the vaccines we're using --- Section Separator --- Vaccines work by teaching the body’s immune system to respond quickly to infection — without being exposed to the infection itself. Traditionally, most vaccines work by introducing modified versions, or bits of the virus, to the immune system. This prompts the body’s immune system to respond by making protective antibodies. This means that when they come across the real infection, your body is already prepared to fight it off. Each vaccine is slightly different and has its own characteristics. Specific information about each vaccine will be made available as Medsafe completes its approval processes. Pfizer and BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine (Comirnaty) is the first to be given provisional approval by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Safety Devices Authority (Medsafe). It is an mRNA vaccine, and is given in 2 doses about 3 weeks apart. Ministry of Health information about the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccines work by teaching the body’s immune system to respond quickly to infection — without being exposed to the infection itself. Traditionally, most vaccines work by introducing modified versions, or bits of the virus, to the immune system. This prompts the body’s immune system to respond by making protective antibodies. This means that when they come across the real infection, your body is already prepared to fight it off. Each vaccine is slightly different and has its own characteristics. Specific information about each vaccine will be made available as Medsafe completes its approval processes. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer and BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine (Comirnaty) is the first to be given provisional approval by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Safety Devices Authority (Medsafe). It is an mRNA vaccine, and is given in 2 doses about 3 weeks apart. --- Section Separator --- Ministry of Health information about the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy Making sure COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective Getting a COVID-19 vaccine About the vaccines we're using About the vaccines we're using COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Making sure COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective --- Section Separator --- There’s never been this level of global collaboration amongst scientists and governments in vaccine development. Vaccine companies have been sharing their data all over the world, which has sped up the research process. It has also led to a number of innovations, such as the use of the messenger RNA (mRNA) technology. In New Zealand, applications for all new medicines (including vaccines) are assessed by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). So COVID-19 vaccines can be made available as early as possible, Medsafe is streamlining its processes and assessing these vaccine applications ahead of normal applications. Medsafe is: in regular contact with pharmaceutical companies to prepare for applications supporting pharmaceutical companies to apply in a consistent way allowing 'rolling' applications – which means companies can submit sections as they are ready, rather than waiting until the whole application is complete considering the assessment of an application from suitable overseas reports, if they are available. Medsafe will only approve a vaccine for use in New Zealand once they are confident it complies with international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. There is no ‘emergency use authorisation’ in New Zealand. Any approvals are likely to be provisional, as data to support the longer-term safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines is not yet available. This means there may be restrictions on how the vaccine can be used and who it can be offered to. If a vaccine is granted provisional approval, pharmaceutical companies would continue to provide Medsafe with more information (from clinical trials, for example) as it becomes available. Medsafe’s vaccine evaluation and approval process (external link) Because COVID-19 vaccines have been developed very quickly and use new technologies, Medsafe is seeking expert advice from the COVID-19 Vaccine Advisory Group. Medsafe can also choose to refer vaccines to the Medicines Assessment Advisory Committee for a final recommendation about approval. Medicines Assessement Advisory Committee (external link) Medsafe uses a range of methods to gather information on the safety and quality of medicines and vaccines after they have been approved. Medsafe’s vaccine safety monitoring process (external link) IMAC is a nationwide organisation based at the School of Population Health at The University of Auckland. It provides independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research about vaccine-preventable diseases the benefits and risks of immunisation. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system, and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Vaccine information from the Ministry of Health (external link) WHO is an agency of the United Nations, and is responsible for international public health. Vaccine information from WHO (external link) --- Section Separator --- There’s never been this level of global collaboration amongst scientists and governments in vaccine development. Vaccine companies have been sharing their data all over the world, which has sped up the research process. It has also led to a number of innovations, such as the use of the messenger RNA (mRNA) technology. --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand, applications for all new medicines (including vaccines) are assessed by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). So COVID-19 vaccines can be made available as early as possible, Medsafe is streamlining its processes and assessing these vaccine applications ahead of normal applications. Medsafe is: in regular contact with pharmaceutical companies to prepare for applications supporting pharmaceutical companies to apply in a consistent way allowing 'rolling' applications – which means companies can submit sections as they are ready, rather than waiting until the whole application is complete considering the assessment of an application from suitable overseas reports, if they are available. --- Section Separator --- Medsafe will only approve a vaccine for use in New Zealand once they are confident it complies with international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. There is no ‘emergency use authorisation’ in New Zealand. Any approvals are likely to be provisional, as data to support the longer-term safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines is not yet available. This means there may be restrictions on how the vaccine can be used and who it can be offered to. If a vaccine is granted provisional approval, pharmaceutical companies would continue to provide Medsafe with more information (from clinical trials, for example) as it becomes available. Medsafe’s vaccine evaluation and approval process (external link) Because COVID-19 vaccines have been developed very quickly and use new technologies, Medsafe is seeking expert advice from the COVID-19 Vaccine Advisory Group. Medsafe can also choose to refer vaccines to the Medicines Assessment Advisory Committee for a final recommendation about approval. Medicines Assessement Advisory Committee (external link) Medsafe uses a range of methods to gather information on the safety and quality of medicines and vaccines after they have been approved. Medsafe’s vaccine safety monitoring process (external link) --- Section Separator --- IMAC is a nationwide organisation based at the School of Population Health at The University of Auckland. It provides independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research about vaccine-preventable diseases the benefits and risks of immunisation. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system, and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Vaccine information from the Ministry of Health (external link) WHO is an agency of the United Nations, and is responsible for international public health. Vaccine information from WHO (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy Making sure COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective Getting a COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy --- Section Separator --- A critical element of the world's response to COVID-19 will be globally available vaccines protecting people from the virus. This will be the largest vaccination campaign in New Zealand's history, with a free vaccine available for everyone in Aotearoa. By having the vaccine, you will be playing your part to protect our country. Getting vaccinated will save lives. The Government’s goal is to give New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours access to safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines as early as possible. This will help us to: control the virus in the long term protect our communities support our economic recovery re-open our borders. This strategy outlines our approach. It makes sure the Government can: contribute to all aspects of global vaccine development, distribution and use invest in research that supports global efforts, builds relationships and helps New Zealand get access to a vaccine develop the ability to manufacture a vaccine, in case we need to make sure the way we regulate the vaccines, support research and enable manufacturing is fit for purpose use purchase agreements to secure supplies of vaccines. Find out more about our COVID-19 vaccine strategy (external link) The COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy Taskforce was set up to oversee how the vaccine strategy is implemented. It was made up of: the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade the Ministry of Health the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe) PHARMAC Treasury the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. It was supported with independent expert advice by the Science and Technical Advisory Group (STAG), which included representatives from across the science and research community. COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy Taskforce – MBIE.govt.nz (external link) The Government has set aside just under $NZ 1 billion ($NZ 983.7 million) to secure access to COVID-19 vaccines. This is from the COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund (external link) We have signed advance purchase agreements with 4 pharmaceutical companies that are developing COVID-19 vaccines: Pfizer and BioNTech Janssen Pharmaceutica University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Novavax Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements The Government has invested $27 million in COVID-19 vaccine development through the COVAX Facility. This is a global collaboration for speeding up the development, manufacture and fair distribution of new vaccines. As part of this agreement, we will have the option to purchase successful COVID-19 vaccines for up to 50% of New Zealand’s population and up to 50% of the populations of the Realm countries (Tokelau, Cook Islands and Niue). The Government has also set aside funds for medical supplies and infrastructure – including personal protective equipment (PPE), needles, syringes and swabs. This is to make sure New Zealand and the Realm countries are ready to launch a vaccination programme as soon as a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine is available. Securing medicine supply and investing in COVID-19 capacity (external link) Vaccine strategy COVID-19 vaccines: a kōrero with Dr Helen Petousis-Harris --- Section Separator --- A critical element of the world's response to COVID-19 will be globally available vaccines protecting people from the virus. This will be the largest vaccination campaign in New Zealand's history, with a free vaccine available for everyone in Aotearoa. By having the vaccine, you will be playing your part to protect our country. Getting vaccinated will save lives. --- Section Separator --- The Government’s goal is to give New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours access to safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines as early as possible. This will help us to: control the virus in the long term protect our communities support our economic recovery re-open our borders. This strategy outlines our approach. It makes sure the Government can: contribute to all aspects of global vaccine development, distribution and use invest in research that supports global efforts, builds relationships and helps New Zealand get access to a vaccine develop the ability to manufacture a vaccine, in case we need to make sure the way we regulate the vaccines, support research and enable manufacturing is fit for purpose use purchase agreements to secure supplies of vaccines. Find out more about our COVID-19 vaccine strategy (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy Taskforce was set up to oversee how the vaccine strategy is implemented. It was made up of: the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade the Ministry of Health the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe) PHARMAC Treasury the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. It was supported with independent expert advice by the Science and Technical Advisory Group (STAG), which included representatives from across the science and research community. COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy Taskforce – MBIE.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government has set aside just under $NZ 1 billion ($NZ 983.7 million) to secure access to COVID-19 vaccines. This is from the COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund (external link) We have signed advance purchase agreements with 4 pharmaceutical companies that are developing COVID-19 vaccines: Pfizer and BioNTech Janssen Pharmaceutica University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Novavax Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements The Government has invested $27 million in COVID-19 vaccine development through the COVAX Facility. This is a global collaboration for speeding up the development, manufacture and fair distribution of new vaccines. As part of this agreement, we will have the option to purchase successful COVID-19 vaccines for up to 50% of New Zealand’s population and up to 50% of the populations of the Realm countries (Tokelau, Cook Islands and Niue). The Government has also set aside funds for medical supplies and infrastructure – including personal protective equipment (PPE), needles, syringes and swabs. This is to make sure New Zealand and the Realm countries are ready to launch a vaccination programme as soon as a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine is available. Securing medicine supply and investing in COVID-19 capacity (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine strategy COVID-19 vaccines: a kōrero with Dr Helen Petousis-Harris --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements Making sure COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective Getting a COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements --- Section Separator --- The teams working on the vaccination rollout are separate to those who are responding to any community outbreaks of COVID-19. The roll out of the vaccination programme to MIQ and the border workforce is progressing well, and we don’t expect any slow-down as a result of the change in Alert Levels. We have entered into the following agreements for the supply of COVID-19 vaccines. Investing in a range of vaccines gives us more choice – especially if some vaccines are more suited to particular population groups. All agreements are subject to the vaccines successfully completing all clinical trials and passing regulatory approvals in New Zealand before they will be provided to the community. Type of vaccine: mRNA-based vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 1.5 million Learn more about the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine Type of vaccine: Viral vector vaccine Doses needed: 1 Number of doses agreed to: Up to 5 million Agreement advanced to purchase up to 5 million COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Type of vaccine: Viral vector vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 7.6 million Two new vaccines secured, enough for every New Zealander (external link) Type of vaccine: Protein subunit vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 10.72 million Two new vaccines secured, enough for every New Zealander (external link) --- Section Separator --- The teams working on the vaccination rollout are separate to those who are responding to any community outbreaks of COVID-19. The roll out of the vaccination programme to MIQ and the border workforce is progressing well, and we don’t expect any slow-down as a result of the change in Alert Levels. --- Section Separator --- We have entered into the following agreements for the supply of COVID-19 vaccines. Investing in a range of vaccines gives us more choice – especially if some vaccines are more suited to particular population groups. All agreements are subject to the vaccines successfully completing all clinical trials and passing regulatory approvals in New Zealand before they will be provided to the community. Type of vaccine: mRNA-based vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 1.5 million Learn more about the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine Type of vaccine: Viral vector vaccine Doses needed: 1 Number of doses agreed to: Up to 5 million Agreement advanced to purchase up to 5 million COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Type of vaccine: Viral vector vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 7.6 million Two new vaccines secured, enough for every New Zealander (external link) Type of vaccine: Protein subunit vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 10.72 million Two new vaccines secured, enough for every New Zealander (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements Making sure COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective Getting a COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that have been touched by an infected person, or if droplets have settled there. People could also get infected if droplets remain in the air for a few minutes, or longer. While it is unlikely people will get infected this way, the risk becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that have been touched by an infected person, or if droplets have settled there. People could also get infected if droplets remain in the air for a few minutes, or longer. While it is unlikely people will get infected this way, the risk becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms Locations of interest for the Auckland community cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Remember to check what type of contact you are, and what you should do. Locations of interest in Auckland, and what you need to do if you're a contact (external link) If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies whether you have symptoms of COVID-19 or not, and regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the Auckland community cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Remember to check what type of contact you are, and what you should do. Locations of interest in Auckland, and what you need to do if you're a contact (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies whether you have symptoms of COVID-19 or not, and regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive --- Section Separator --- If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres --- Section Separator --- If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Search for a testing location near you (external link) Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer can apply for the payment if you are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised them that : you have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises you can leave self-isolation you have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) you are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and you have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process you are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or you are, or you have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 I(as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how employers can apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If your employer applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer can apply for the payment if you are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised them that : you have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises you can leave self-isolation you have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) you are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and you have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process you are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or you are, or you have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 I(as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how employers can apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If your employer applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing Exercising safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: people in groups of up to 100 groups separate either through consistent 2 metre physical distancing when outdoors, or using barriers. We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you're experienced and know the trail swimming — in safe local spots. Do not take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. What is not allowed: Flying manned aircraft Hunting in motorised vehicles Water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving Team sports and training. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters cannot stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: people in groups of up to 100 groups separate either through consistent 2 metre physical distancing when outdoors, or using barriers. We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues --- Section Separator --- Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you're experienced and know the trail swimming — in safe local spots. Do not take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. What is not allowed: Flying manned aircraft Hunting in motorised vehicles Water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving Team sports and training. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters cannot stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau dies: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has died. Contact a local funeral director if you want to use one. Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, we recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to happen. Their health provider will help you in the first instance, and the police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director when you ’ ve appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Information after a death — Te Hokinga ā Wairua End-of-Life Service (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. Do not attend the gathering if the number of people is more than 100 in a defined space If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau dies: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has died. Contact a local funeral director if you want to use one. Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, we recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to happen. Their health provider will help you in the first instance, and the police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director when you ’ ve appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Information after a death — Te Hokinga ā Wairua End-of-Life Service (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. Do not attend the gathering if the number of people is more than 100 in a defined space If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. --- Section Separator --- Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing In an emergency --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing.
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Free tools, resources and apps --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 — from Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) --- Section Separator --- Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 — from Depression.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Where to go for help --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age. Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need to Talk? — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age. Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Lifeline — 0800 543 354 (0800 LIFELINE) or free text 4357 (HELP) Find out more about Lifeline (external link) Suicide Crisis Helpline — 0508 828 865 (0508 TAUTOKO) Find out more about the Suicide Crisis Helpline (external link) Depression and Anxiety Helpline — 0800 111 757 or free text 4202 to talk to a trained counsellor about how you are feeling or to ask any questions. Find out more about the Depression and Anxiety Helpline (external link) Anxiety phone line — 0800 269 4389 (0800 ANXIETY) Find out more about the Anxiety phone line (external link) Family Services 211 Helpline 0800 211 211 — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing People at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma that needs multiple medications and medical care serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that isn’t well controlled diabetes that isn’t well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. See information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: a higher rate of chronic health conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you cannot safely work at your workplace, and cannot work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) At Alert Level 1 it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: Connect with smaller groups of close family, whānau and friends. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it’s difficult to keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know, for example in shops. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] --- Section Separator --- These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma that needs multiple medications and medical care serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that isn’t well controlled diabetes that isn’t well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. See information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: a higher rate of chronic health conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you cannot safely work at your workplace, and cannot work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1 it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: Connect with smaller groups of close family, whānau and friends. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it’s difficult to keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know, for example in shops. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] --- Section Separator --- There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Please wear a face covering whenever you're on public transport, including flights. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Clean surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- For most people face masks are not recommended. Face masks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a face mask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. --- Section Separator --- For most people face masks are not recommended. Face masks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a face mask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. --- Section Separator --- Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find information about contact tracing: --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Find out more about Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster.
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) track down people who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. More about contact tracing at the Ministry of Health (external link) There are several types of ‘contacts’: close plus contacts close contacts casual plus contacts, and casual contacts. The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, depending on the circumstances you may be classed as a contact. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: If they have, this gives us all the information needed to quickly start pinpointing the source of a cluster/community transmission and anyone else who may have been exposed to the virus. It also helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code wasn’t available. If they have not, there's a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be issued via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert probably will not be able to be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people needlessly. If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app instantly receives information telling them they may have been exposed to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) track down people who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. More about contact tracing at the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several types of ‘contacts’: close plus contacts close contacts casual plus contacts, and casual contacts. The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, depending on the circumstances you may be classed as a contact. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: If they have, this gives us all the information needed to quickly start pinpointing the source of a cluster/community transmission and anyone else who may have been exposed to the virus. It also helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code wasn’t available. If they have not, there's a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be issued via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert probably will not be able to be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people needlessly. If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app instantly receives information telling them they may have been exposed to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app has been updated to include Bluetooth tracing technology. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is not intended to replace our existing contact tracing processes or the NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. Once you have turned Bluetooth tracing on, it works by sending out a private and secure random ID code. It’s like your phone is giving digital high-fives to other phones you are near. The Bluetooth tracing function records how close the other phone was, and for how long. The phones you come into contact with will need to have Bluetooth tracing turned on as well. This means that when someone tests positive for COVID-19, they can send an anonymous notification containing all the random IDs their phone has sent out over the past 14 days. If your phone recognises any of these IDs, and you had been close enough for long enough to be at risk of exposure, you’ll receive an alert. This alert will advise you on what to do to keep yourself and your whānau safe. Watch our Bluetooth tracing video on this page to see how it works. To enable Bluetooth tracing, go to the dashboard of the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should see a menu item saying whether Bluetooth tracing is on or not. If it’s off, tap the icon to turn it on. Once Bluetooth tracing is enabled in the app, it will work automatically in the background as long as you have your phone’s Bluetooth setting on. If you don’t see a menu item about Bluetooth tracing on the dashboard, you might need to update the app in the App Store or Play Store. Bluetooth tracing will not use any mobile data, and it will not drain your battery because it uses Bluetooth Low Energy. Read more troubleshooting tips (external link) When you enable Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Bluetooth tracing also does not record who you came into contact with, or where you were. This means if you receive an alert because you came into contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, no one but you knows you have received it. All the contact tracing information you collect with the app is held securely on your phone, and it’s always your choice what information you choose to share. How to enable Bluetooth tracing, device minimum requirements and troubleshooting advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. It also means if you test positive for the virus, you can instantly give your digital diary to contact tracers. This gives them a massive head start. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. From 10 December, NZ COVID Tracer will have Bluetooth tracing to anonymously keep track of who you have been near. However, it’s still just as important to keep scanning QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Both are important for contact tracing. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display a NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: businesses or service workplace public transport operators. Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will not be easy to do contact tracing if needed. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, retail businesses, shopping malls or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre physical distance in ‘controlled environments’ where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will not be easy to do contact tracing if needed. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, retail businesses, shopping malls or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre physical distance in ‘controlled environments’ where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer can apply for the payment if you are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised them that : you have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises you can leave self-isolation you have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) you are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and you have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process you are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or you are, or you have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 I(as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how employers can apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If your employer applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. --- Section Separator --- If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. --- Section Separator --- While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. --- Section Separator --- Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. --- Section Separator --- We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer can apply for the payment if you are not able to be at work, cannot work from home and have advised them that : you have COVID-19 and must self-isolate until a medical practitioner advises you can leave self-isolation you have been directed to self-isolate, or are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been directed to self-isolate, by a Medical Officer of Health (a Medical Officer of Health is defined in the Health Act 1956) you are identified as a close contact of someone who has COVID-19, and you have been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process you are the parent or caregiver of a dependant who has been advised to self-isolate by a medical practitioner or through the National Contact Tracing process, or you are, or you have household members who are, most at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 I(as defined in official Government public health guidance), and have been advised by a medical practitioner to self-isolate. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how employers can apply (external link) The criteria for getting the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme changed at 9am on 9 February 2021. If your employer applied before this time, you need to meet the old criteria. If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. --- Section Separator --- Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on pre-booked public transport services — bus or train services that collect your contact details before they depart, and allocate you a seat on jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on pre-booked public transport services — bus or train services that collect your contact details before they depart, and allocate you a seat on jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. --- Section Separator --- Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it's not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it doesn’t catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it's not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it doesn’t catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. --- Section Separator --- Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency

Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to plan your travel to New Zealand and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Information about leaving your house, local travel and regional travel. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about registering with SafeTravel, how to travel to New Zealand and border controls when you arrive. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you can not get home. --- Section Separator --- How to plan your travel to New Zealand and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Information about leaving your house, local travel and regional travel. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about registering with SafeTravel, how to travel to New Zealand and border controls when you arrive. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you can not get home.
Home Travel and the border Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate when you get home, so it’s best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas (external link) Most visitor visas due to expire between 4 September and the end of October 2020 have been extended by 5 months from the expiry date of their current visa The Government is also going to introduce a new COVID-19 short-term visitor visa to help temporary migrants who are unable to leave New Zealand due to international travel restrictions when their current visa expires. Information for all travellers, student visa holders, migrant workers and employers (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate when you get home, so it’s best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas (external link) Most visitor visas due to expire between 4 September and the end of October 2020 have been extended by 5 months from the expiry date of their current visa The Government is also going to introduce a new COVID-19 short-term visitor visa to help temporary migrants who are unable to leave New Zealand due to international travel restrictions when their current visa expires. Information for all travellers, student visa holders, migrant workers and employers (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand Green zone flights from New Zealand to Australia can continue. There are some entry conditions. All passengers travelling from New Zealand on a green zone flight, who have been in Auckland for any period (with exception of the airport for travel) over the last 14 days, will be required to provide evidence at check-in of a negative PCR test conducted within 72 hours of the scheduled flight departure. Routine pre-departure and on arrival screening will continue. These conditions will be in place until 12:01 am (AEDT) on 1 March 2020. You are strongly advised to check requirements with your airline before travelling to Australia. Statement from the Australian Government Department of Health (external link) You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you: have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location, and are travelling to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. If you want to avoid quarantine, you can only travel to: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland, or Victoria. If you want to travel on to other states or territories, you will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: COVID-19 outbreak locations, and if there are any in New Zealand completing an Australia Travel Declaration before you depart whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days, including if you are transiting. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you plan to travel back to New Zealand after your trip to Australia, you will need to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You may have to pay for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Green zone flights from New Zealand to Australia can continue. There are some entry conditions. All passengers travelling from New Zealand on a green zone flight, who have been in Auckland for any period (with exception of the airport for travel) over the last 14 days, will be required to provide evidence at check-in of a negative PCR test conducted within 72 hours of the scheduled flight departure. Routine pre-departure and on arrival screening will continue. These conditions will be in place until 12:01 am (AEDT) on 1 March 2020. You are strongly advised to check requirements with your airline before travelling to Australia. Statement from the Australian Government Department of Health (external link) You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you: have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location, and are travelling to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. If you want to avoid quarantine, you can only travel to: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland, or Victoria. If you want to travel on to other states or territories, you will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: COVID-19 outbreak locations, and if there are any in New Zealand completing an Australia Travel Declaration before you depart whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days, including if you are transiting. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you plan to travel back to New Zealand after your trip to Australia, you will need to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You may have to pay for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) You can now travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can now travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. --- Section Separator --- What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. People are exempt from a day 0/1 test if they arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. People are exempt from a day 0/1 test if they arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. --- Section Separator --- The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Who does, and who does not, need to get a pre-departure test before arriving in New Zealand. Approved test results and certificates, finding a testing location and what to do if your flight is cancelled or delayed. What you need to present to officials, and day 0/1 testing after you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Who does, and who does not, need to get a pre-departure test before arriving in New Zealand. Approved test results and certificates, finding a testing location and what to do if your flight is cancelled or delayed. What you need to present to officials, and day 0/1 testing after you arrive in New Zealand.
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. Travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands are exempt from day 0/1 testing. If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. Travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands are exempt from day 0/1 testing. --- Section Separator --- If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- On 20 January, the Ministry of Health confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: PCR test (including RT-PCR) LAMP, or antigen tests (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: Name of person tested Date of birth of person tested and/or the passport number of the person tested Name of the laboratory at which the COVID-19 test was processed Written confirmation from the laboratory of the result of a COVID-19 test Written confirmation of: the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test Written confirmation of the type of test that was conducted If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Private providers for coronavirus testing (external link) Book a test at Heathrow Airport (external link) Learn more about CDC's recommendations for testing and international air travel (external link) You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. Travellers are responsible for testing costs. You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. What happens after you arrive in New Zealand, like presenting your test results to officials and getting a day 0/1 test when you enter a managed isolation facility. After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- On 20 January, the Ministry of Health confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: PCR test (including RT-PCR) LAMP, or antigen tests (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: Name of person tested Date of birth of person tested and/or the passport number of the person tested Name of the laboratory at which the COVID-19 test was processed Written confirmation from the laboratory of the result of a COVID-19 test Written confirmation of: the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test Written confirmation of the type of test that was conducted If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Private providers for coronavirus testing (external link) Book a test at Heathrow Airport (external link) Learn more about CDC's recommendations for testing and international air travel (external link) You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. --- Section Separator --- If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. --- Section Separator --- If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. --- Section Separator --- If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. --- Section Separator --- Travellers are responsible for testing costs. --- Section Separator --- You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- What happens after you arrive in New Zealand, like presenting your test results to officials and getting a day 0/1 test when you enter a managed isolation facility. After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. For travellers from the UK or the US, this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 January 2021. For travellers from other countries (except those from exempt locations) this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a suitably qualified health practitioner (or a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: a health protection officer; a staff member or representative of the relevant air carrier; an immigration officer; or an enforcement officer; All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. What you need to do before you travel, including getting an approved test result, finding a testing location and what to do if your negative test result does not arrive in time. What to do before you travel — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. --- Section Separator --- The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. For travellers from the UK or the US, this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 January 2021. For travellers from other countries (except those from exempt locations) this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a suitably qualified health practitioner (or a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: a health protection officer; a staff member or representative of the relevant air carrier; an immigration officer; or an enforcement officer; All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do before you travel, including getting an approved test result, finding a testing location and what to do if your negative test result does not arrive in time. What to do before you travel — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa | Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand You can travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from the Cook Islands to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from the Cook Islands are likely to be New Zealand or Australian citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. You must be in the Cook Islands when you apply. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. If you’re from the Cook Islands and you wish to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the relevant entry requirements of your onwards destination. If you’re in the Cook Islands and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside New Zealand and the Cook Islands in the past 14 days. You must maintain physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the arrival airport who did not arrive from the Cook Islands. You must wear a face covering while in the arrival airport. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Departures from Rarotonga International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You will need to wear a face covering on your flight. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at Rarotonga Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from the Cook Islands do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Cook Islands arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from the Cook Islands. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from the Cook Islands. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Cook Islands arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed, or if you have to enter isolation when you return. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go, so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app. Download NZ COVID Tracer If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be available when you arrive. Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Depending on the Alert Level, you may also need to wear a face covering on public transport and in places where physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings at different Alert Levels If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. The Cook Islands Government must approve all people who want to travel to the Cook Islands. To get approval to travel, you must: be eligible to travel to the Cook Islands have a negative COVID-19 test result 72 hours before your scheduled departure tell Te Marae Ora of your negative result and ask for approval to travel, and complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Who can travel to the Cook Islands, and conditions you must meet (external link) You can also email the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration at immigration2@cookislands.gov.ck This announcement does not affect you if you are already in a managed isolation facility. You will still need to complete your 14 days. Advice for Cook Islands travellers arriving in NZ [PDF, 98 KB] Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa — quarantine-free travel information in Cook Islands Māori --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa | Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling quarantine free from the Cook Islands to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from the Cook Islands are likely to be New Zealand or Australian citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. You must be in the Cook Islands when you apply. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. If you’re from the Cook Islands and you wish to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the relevant entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- If you’re in the Cook Islands and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside New Zealand and the Cook Islands in the past 14 days. You must maintain physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the arrival airport who did not arrive from the Cook Islands. You must wear a face covering while in the arrival airport. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Departures from Rarotonga International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You will need to wear a face covering on your flight. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at Rarotonga Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from the Cook Islands do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Cook Islands arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from the Cook Islands. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from the Cook Islands. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Cook Islands arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed, or if you have to enter isolation when you return. --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go, so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app. Download NZ COVID Tracer If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be available when you arrive. Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Depending on the Alert Level, you may also need to wear a face covering on public transport and in places where physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings at different Alert Levels If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. The Cook Islands Government must approve all people who want to travel to the Cook Islands. To get approval to travel, you must: be eligible to travel to the Cook Islands have a negative COVID-19 test result 72 hours before your scheduled departure tell Te Marae Ora of your negative result and ask for approval to travel, and complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Who can travel to the Cook Islands, and conditions you must meet (external link) You can also email the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration at immigration2@cookislands.gov.ck --- Section Separator --- This announcement does not affect you if you are already in a managed isolation facility. You will still need to complete your 14 days. --- Section Separator --- Advice for Cook Islands travellers arriving in NZ [PDF, 98 KB] Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa — quarantine-free travel information in Cook Islands Māori --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Advice for when you leave your house including how to lower the risk of transmission. Advice for travelling locally, including public transport, how to travel safely and other ways of travel. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Alert Level boundaries are important to stop the virus spreading. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Advice for travelling in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area to return to your primary residence. --- Section Separator --- Advice for when you leave your house including how to lower the risk of transmission. Advice for travelling locally, including public transport, how to travel safely and other ways of travel. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Alert Level boundaries are important to stop the virus spreading. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Advice for travelling in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area to return to your primary residence.
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions for business reasons needs to check whether they are permitted to travel. A person may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. You or your employer need to make sure you have evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. If your business or service is permitted to travel across the boundary under the Order, you can register to get a Business Travel Document as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. This will make crossing the boundary quicker and easier. People crossing the boundary should also have a form of photo ID. Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable. Register your permitted travel (external link) If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you can apply for an exemption. Exemptions will be limited to critical activity only. Requests will need to meet criteria and many requests will not be approved. Apply for a business travel exemption for critical activity (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. More information about exemptions for personal travel --- Section Separator --- Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions for business reasons needs to check whether they are permitted to travel. A person may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. You or your employer need to make sure you have evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. --- Section Separator --- If your business or service is permitted to travel across the boundary under the Order, you can register to get a Business Travel Document as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. This will make crossing the boundary quicker and easier. People crossing the boundary should also have a form of photo ID. Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable. Register your permitted travel (external link) If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you can apply for an exemption. Exemptions will be limited to critical activity only. Requests will need to meet criteria and many requests will not be approved. Apply for a business travel exemption for critical activity (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. More information about exemptions for personal travel --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Leaving your house --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings You can leave your house and gather with as many people as you want at Alert Level 1. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. COVID-19 is in New Zealand. Play it safe. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know when you’re in public places and retail stores. In other environments, such as your workplace, try to keep a 1 metre distance from others. Wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Wash your hands properly, and dry them. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect surfaces. Keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get tested. If you have been told to self-isolate do so immediately. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 Keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Do not touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds Do not travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes Only shop for essential supplies Wash your hands regularly Stay local if you go out for exercise. More information about exercising safely You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- You can leave your house and gather with as many people as you want at Alert Level 1. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. COVID-19 is in New Zealand. Play it safe. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know when you’re in public places and retail stores. In other environments, such as your workplace, try to keep a 1 metre distance from others. Wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Wash your hands properly, and dry them. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect surfaces. Keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get tested. If you have been told to self-isolate do so immediately. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 Keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Do not touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds Do not travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes Only shop for essential supplies Wash your hands regularly Stay local if you go out for exercise. More information about exercising safely You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Local travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Your driver must wear one. To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Your driver must wear one. --- Section Separator --- To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. --- Section Separator --- As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Anyone wanting to travel between areas at different Alert Level areas needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. A person may go only into an Alert Level 3 area from another Alert Level area, or go out of an Alert Level 3 area into another Alert Level area, if that travel is permitted. Permitted travel is described in the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order (no.4) 2021. Anyone wanting to travel into or out of an Alert Level 3 for personal reasons needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If your reason for travelling isn’t permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is urgent, non-delayable; or anyone else within the Alert Level can attend the event or perform the activity on your behalf. You can apply for an exemption online. A high number of applications may be submitted, so please be patient. The Ministry of Health will respond to you as soon as possible. Apply for personal travel approval through the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone wanting to travel between areas at different Alert Level areas needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. A person may go only into an Alert Level 3 area from another Alert Level area, or go out of an Alert Level 3 area into another Alert Level area, if that travel is permitted. Permitted travel is described in the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order (no.4) 2021. --- Section Separator --- Anyone wanting to travel into or out of an Alert Level 3 for personal reasons needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If your reason for travelling isn’t permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is urgent, non-delayable; or anyone else within the Alert Level can attend the event or perform the activity on your behalf. You can apply for an exemption online. A high number of applications may be submitted, so please be patient. The Ministry of Health will respond to you as soon as possible. Apply for personal travel approval through the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Regional travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Alert Level boundaries interactive map If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: your need to travel across an Alert Level boundary is for an urgent, non-delayable reason; or anyone else (who does not need to cross the Alert Level boundary) can attend the event or perform the activity you need to get to. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed online registration systems to support requests for business, service and personal movement across an Alert Level boundary. For business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through the Ministry of Health (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Advice for travelling locally --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Alert Level boundaries interactive map If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: your need to travel across an Alert Level boundary is for an urgent, non-delayable reason; or anyone else (who does not need to cross the Alert Level boundary) can attend the event or perform the activity you need to get to. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed online registration systems to support requests for business, service and personal movement across an Alert Level boundary. For business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Advice for travelling locally --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Travelling home during an Alert Level change --- Section Separator --- You can leave an Alert Level 3 area to return to your primary residence. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or on public transport. This also includes going to the airport to catch a flight home. You must carry the following evidence: Proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (for example, utility bill, bank statement) — electronic documents are acceptable. Drivers must have photo ID (driver’s licence). Passengers should have photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (for example, because they are a minor). Proof of travel, such as your flight tickets, is helpful. You can return to your primary residence in an Alert Level 3 area if you are currently outside the boundary. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or on public transport. You must carry the following evidence: Proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (for example, utility bill, bank statement) — electronic documents are acceptable. Drivers must have photo ID (driver’s licence). Passengers should have photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (for example, because they are a minor). You can travel directly through an Alert Level 3 area to return home. You should plan your journey so you do not need to stop in an Alert Level 3 area. For example, if you are in Hamilton and your primary residence is in Whangārei you can drive through Auckland at Alert Level 3, without stopping, to return home. You must carry the following evidence: Proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (for example, utility bill, bank statement) — electronic documents are acceptable. Drivers must have photo ID (driver’s licence). Passengers should have photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (for example, because they are a minor). Use our Alert Level boundaries map for the specific boundary lines and for the locations of the police checkpoints. Alert Level boundaries map Before you depart, make sure you plan your trip using the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures on Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner. Use Journey Planner (external link) Police checkpoints will be in place at key locations at the Alert Level 3 boundary, so plan for the possibility of long delays in an out of an Alert Level 3 area: Take enough food and water for the whole family, including pets. Take bathroom breaks wherever possible as there may be delays in areas where bathrooms are not available. Be patient. Everyone is experiencing the same delay as you are. Travel in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. You can return to your primary residence but travel for other reasons is limited and you may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 flying is permitted for the purpose of returning to your primary residence, with no plan to leave, or as part of essential work. Your airline will advise you if your flight or travel plans are impacted by any Alert Level changes. This includes cancellations. Airline contact centres may be receiving a high volume of calls, so check your airline’s website for more information before you call. There may be increased traffic on the roads, possibly affecting public transport. Check Journey Planner for the latest traffic information and make sure you allow enough to get to the airport. Use Journey Planner (external link) Airports will also be under Alert Level 3 restrictions. This includes: physical distancing at the airport all passengers will be required to wear a face covering on all flights lounges may be closed and inflight food and beverage services may be suspended. Travel in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. You can return to your primary residence but travel for other reasons is limited and you may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 If you have returned to your home in an Alert Level 3 area you must follow Alert Level 3 restrictions. Information about Alert Level 3 If you visited an Alert Level 3 area and have returned home, you should follow all of the relevant Alert Level requirements in your area. You only need to isolate if you have been to a location of interest. Find the locations of interest (external link) However, if you have recently been in an Alert Level 3 area and develop any potential COVID-19 symptoms, you must isolate immediately and contact your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . The symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to common illnesses such as a cold or influenza. You may have one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough fever (at least 38˚C) shortness of breath a sore throat sneezing and runny nose muscle aches fatigue loss of taste and/or smell. Remember, it's better to act with caution than be complacent about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can leave an Alert Level 3 area to return to your primary residence. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or on public transport. This also includes going to the airport to catch a flight home. You must carry the following evidence: Proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (for example, utility bill, bank statement) — electronic documents are acceptable. Drivers must have photo ID (driver’s licence). Passengers should have photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (for example, because they are a minor). Proof of travel, such as your flight tickets, is helpful. You can return to your primary residence in an Alert Level 3 area if you are currently outside the boundary. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or on public transport. You must carry the following evidence: Proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (for example, utility bill, bank statement) — electronic documents are acceptable. Drivers must have photo ID (driver’s licence). Passengers should have photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (for example, because they are a minor). You can travel directly through an Alert Level 3 area to return home. You should plan your journey so you do not need to stop in an Alert Level 3 area. For example, if you are in Hamilton and your primary residence is in Whangārei you can drive through Auckland at Alert Level 3, without stopping, to return home. You must carry the following evidence: Proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (for example, utility bill, bank statement) — electronic documents are acceptable. Drivers must have photo ID (driver’s licence). Passengers should have photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (for example, because they are a minor). --- Section Separator --- Use our Alert Level boundaries map for the specific boundary lines and for the locations of the police checkpoints. Alert Level boundaries map Before you depart, make sure you plan your trip using the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures on Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner. Use Journey Planner (external link) Police checkpoints will be in place at key locations at the Alert Level 3 boundary, so plan for the possibility of long delays in an out of an Alert Level 3 area: Take enough food and water for the whole family, including pets. Take bathroom breaks wherever possible as there may be delays in areas where bathrooms are not available. Be patient. Everyone is experiencing the same delay as you are. Travel in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. You can return to your primary residence but travel for other reasons is limited and you may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 flying is permitted for the purpose of returning to your primary residence, with no plan to leave, or as part of essential work. Your airline will advise you if your flight or travel plans are impacted by any Alert Level changes. This includes cancellations. Airline contact centres may be receiving a high volume of calls, so check your airline’s website for more information before you call. There may be increased traffic on the roads, possibly affecting public transport. Check Journey Planner for the latest traffic information and make sure you allow enough to get to the airport. Use Journey Planner (external link) Airports will also be under Alert Level 3 restrictions. This includes: physical distancing at the airport all passengers will be required to wear a face covering on all flights lounges may be closed and inflight food and beverage services may be suspended. Travel in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. You can return to your primary residence but travel for other reasons is limited and you may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If you have returned to your home in an Alert Level 3 area you must follow Alert Level 3 restrictions. Information about Alert Level 3 If you visited an Alert Level 3 area and have returned home, you should follow all of the relevant Alert Level requirements in your area. You only need to isolate if you have been to a location of interest. Find the locations of interest (external link) However, if you have recently been in an Alert Level 3 area and develop any potential COVID-19 symptoms, you must isolate immediately and contact your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . The symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to common illnesses such as a cold or influenza. You may have one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough fever (at least 38˚C) shortness of breath a sore throat sneezing and runny nose muscle aches fatigue loss of taste and/or smell. Remember, it's better to act with caution than be complacent about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Data and statistics about COVID-19 cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Data and statistics about COVID-19 cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout.
Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information in Large Print and audio formats.
Home Updates and resources Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.9 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1007 KB] It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [PDF, 1.1 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 6 MB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [PDF, 1 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 9.9 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.7 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.9 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1007 KB] It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] --- Section Separator --- Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [PDF, 1.1 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 6 MB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 9.9 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.7 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] Information about Alert Levels 2 and 3, including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [DOCX, 71 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Face coverings and masks — updated 20 Nov 2020 Face coverings and masks — full audio [MP3, 1.8 MB] Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about Alert Levels 2 and 3, including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [DOCX, 71 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks — updated 20 Nov 2020 Face coverings and masks — full audio [MP3, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) COVID-19 vaccination programme (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Make Summer Unstoppable (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) COVID-19 vaccination programme (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Make Summer Unstoppable (external link) --- Section Separator --- Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Contact a helpline --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand call +64 4 888 1670 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM email enquiries@miq.govt.nz Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand call +64 4 888 1670 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM email enquiries@miq.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages --- Section Separator --- If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources COVID-19 vaccine resources --- Section Separator --- Find out more about the vaccine, what things to consider before getting your vaccine, what happens after your vaccine and potential side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 92 KB] Information about potential side effects and what to do if you get them. After your immunisation [PDF, 119 KB] Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. COVID-19 vaccines: FAQ [PDF, 93 KB] Easy to read information on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine - simplified version [PDF, 222 KB] The personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 109 KB] Advice about the vaccine for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 114 KB] Advice about the vaccination process for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Find out more about the vaccine, what things to consider before getting your vaccine, what happens after your vaccine and potential side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 92 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about potential side effects and what to do if you get them. After your immunisation [PDF, 119 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. COVID-19 vaccines: FAQ [PDF, 93 KB] --- Section Separator --- Easy to read information on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine - simplified version [PDF, 222 KB] --- Section Separator --- The personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 109 KB] --- Section Separator --- Advice about the vaccine for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 114 KB] Advice about the vaccination process for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: the number of confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the location and source of active cases cases by district health board (DHB). Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: ethnicity age and sex hospitalisation and intensive care COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: total tests completed tests by location, for example in managed isolation or by district health board tests by ethnicity testing rates, including testing by location, ethnicity, and age and sex. COVID-19 testing data (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, you may be classed as a ‘casual contact’. The Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you should do if you are a casual contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: daily data updates projected occupancy over the next 14 days number of people who have returned to New Zealand daily incident reports testing data and current COVID-19 cases in managed isolation and quarantine. Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: the number of confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the location and source of active cases cases by district health board (DHB). Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: ethnicity age and sex hospitalisation and intensive care COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: total tests completed tests by location, for example in managed isolation or by district health board tests by ethnicity testing rates, including testing by location, ethnicity, and age and sex. COVID-19 testing data (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, you may be classed as a ‘casual contact’. The Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you should do if you are a casual contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: daily data updates projected occupancy over the next 14 days number of people who have returned to New Zealand daily incident reports testing data and current COVID-19 cases in managed isolation and quarantine. Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Displaying 1-10 of 246 updates 08 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 vaccines media conference with government officials and ministers. 08 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Mar 2021 A border-related case of COVID-19 has been identified today as part of routine surveillance testing. 06 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Mar 2021 On Friday 5 March a Section 70 order was issued. This applies to certain people, who are required to do three things. 05 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 05 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 03 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 02 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials.
This person is being referred to as Case O and is a household contact of Cases I, J, K and L. Case O was transferred to the Auckland quarantine facility on 23 February as a precautionary measure. The person became symptomatic yesterday and returned a positive COVID-19 test this afternoon. This means that Case O has been in quarantine for their infectious period. As a result of the early precautionary measures carried out to contain potential COVID-19 spread from this household there are no new locations of interest and no risk to members of the public. Whole Genome Sequencing will be carried out to confirm a link between Case O and the other cases in the cluster. Update on Case N Preliminary Whole Genome Sequencing results for Case N confirm the case is similar to that of Case M and is linked to the current outbreak.
Following their positive COVID-19 test results yesterday, Case M and Case N – who are household contacts - are now in the Auckland quarantine facility. Whole Genome Sequencing results confirm Case M is linked to the existing cluster, through the family that includes cases D, E, F, G, and H. Contact tracing teams have also identified a link between the two households. As with other cases in this cluster, Case M is confirmed to have the B.1.1.7 variant of the virus, which was first identified in the United Kingdom. Genome sequencing results to date supports all the cases in the cluster being linked, which reinforces we are currently looking for the source for only one cluster at this stage. The investigation into the cluster's source continues to be a focus. This work is being led by the team from the Auckland regional public health unit with support from the Ministry of Health and ESR. We continue to investigate epidemiological links, carry out Whole Genome Sequencing, and test wastewater in Auckland. There are also two new cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation. --- Section Separator --- Public health officials are continuing to interview Case M and Case N. Locations of interest will continue to be updated on the Ministry of Health website. Find the locations of interest (external link) A strong focus for public health staff in Auckland is working to identify any contacts at the Manukau Institute of Technology (MIT) Manukau campus. The dates and times of potential exposure events are on the Ministry’s website, on the locations of interest page. This page also has public health advice for people who were at the campus at these dates and times. The vast majority of people on the campus at the same times as Case M are considered casual contacts and need to watch for symptoms. They do not need to have a test unless they have symptoms, or are a close or casual plus contact. At this stage, around 20 close contacts at MIT have been identified. Anyone who has visited any locations of interest at the times specified should check the Ministry website for advice. Those that have received a text with their initial COVID-19 test result should continue to follow the advice given for the period of self-isolation. If you have symptoms but have not been to a location of interest stay home and call Healthline for advice. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), alongside the Ministry of Justice, is working to ensure essential workers can get through the Auckland border as quickly as possible. We have been advised that for those who had a previous travel exemption, usually to get to work, their exemptions remain in place and they do not need to reapply. Health workers moving across the border will be able to show their work identification so they can travel to work easily. It is important for businesses to check in with their workers and anyone with symptoms should stay home and be tested if they were at any of the locations of interest at times when they could have been exposed. --- Section Separator --- KFC staff - there are 11 close plus contacts who worked at the same time as Case L. These people were due for their day 5 test yesterday. Four of these people have returned negative test results so far. All other test results received so far have come back negative. Detailed advice about the actions required for the different categories of contacts is provided on the Advice about the categories of contacts (external link) Case A had 31 close contacts at the school, one of these tested positive (Case D). All others have tested negative for COVID-19. All the remaining students and staff at the school have been designated as casual plus contacts of Case A. There are 1,520 casual plus contacts. This number has reduced from previous days following further investigation. As at 8am this morning, excluding the three positive cases (Case E, I and J), 1,515 students and staff have returned at least one negative test result since 15 February. All casual plus contacts have been undergoing a follow-up test on or after 22 February. So far, all results from the additional testing have been negative. A total of 33 staff members have been identified as close plus contacts. This number has reduced from previous days following further investigation. All 33 people have tested negative. We have been contacted by 1,804 people who reported being at the store at the times of interest. They have been provided with public health advice. These people have been asked to isolate for 14 days and be tested at day 5 and day 12 after their exposure to the case. People who have symptoms will be tested at different intervals. We currently have 1,760 negative test results for this group. --- Section Separator --- People in Auckland must follow Alert Level 3 requirements. This means stay home and work from home if you can, to avoid any risk of spread. Information about Alert Level 3 If you must leave home, keep a 2 metre distance from others and wear a face covering if possible. Travel in and out of Auckland is restricted to permitted travel only — otherwise you must stay in the region. In Auckland, all sports games and large gatherings are cancelled. Public venues must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed for wedding services, funerals, and tangihanga only. Physical distancing must be maintained. Schools and early learning centres in Auckland are only open for the children/dependents of essential workers and others who cannot be at home safely. Businesses can open but they cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless they are: supermarkets; primary produce retailers; pharmacies; petrol stations; hardware stores providing goods to trade customers; or if there is an emergency or critical situation. If you have symptoms, get tested. It is free. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. --- Section Separator --- 11 community testing centres in the Auckland region are open today — they are in Takanini, Wiri, Mangere, Otara, Botany, Pakuranga, Balmoral, New Lynn, Henderson, Northcote and Kohuora Park in Papatoetoe. We are monitoring the situation continuously and will continue to increase capacity and hours at the current CTCs and open additional testing sites. We understand that people may be feeling anxious, but it’s important the right people get access to testing. Please don’t rush to a testing centre if you are well, or if you weren’t at one of the locations of interest at the stated times. If you have been to a location of interest at the stated times, please visit the locations of interest web page to find out if and when you need to get tested. Find the locations of interest (external link) For up-to-date information on testing locations in Auckland (external link) For all testing locations nationwide (external link)
A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident.
A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020.
A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453.
Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453.
You can leave Auckland to return to your primary residence. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or public transport. This also includes going to Auckland airport to catch a flight home. You must carry the following evidence: proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (e.g. utility bill, bank statement etc) – electronic documents are acceptable. drivers must have Photo ID (Driver’s Licence) passengers should have a Photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (e.g. minors). proof of travel, such as your flight tickets, is helpful You can return to your primary residence in Auckland if you are currently outside the Auckland Alert Level 3 boundary. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or public transport. You must carry the following evidence: proof of residential address, which has both the person’s name and address on the document (e.g. utility bill, bank statement etc) – electronic documents are acceptable. drivers must have Photo ID (Driver’s Licence) passengers should have a Photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (e.g. minors). You can travel directly through Auckland to return home. For example, if you are in Hamilton and your primary residence is in Whangarei you can drive through Auckland to return home. You should plan your journey so that you do not need to stop in Auckland. You must carry the following evidence: document(s) that demonstrate the purpose of travel and the destination of the person travelling (e.g. a proof of residential address, if travelling home) drivers must have Photo ID (Driver’s Licence) and passengers should have a Photo ID, unless it is not reasonably practicable (e.g. minors). During your journey, and on arrival at your destination, please continue to comply with any relevant public health advice, including: Physical distancing Washing your hands regularly Keeping records of who you have been in touch with via the NZ COVID Tracer app or using any manual sign-in sheets offered by businesses. Staying home if you’re unwell and getting a test if advised by your doctor or Healthline. --- Section Separator --- If you have returned to your home in Auckland you must follow Alert Level 3 restrictions. Information about Alert Level 3 (external link) If you visited Auckland and have returned home you only need to isolate if you have been to a location of interest in Auckland. But you should follow all of the relevant Alert Level 2 requirements. Find the locations of interest (external link) However , if you have recently been in Auckland and develop any potential COVID-19 health symptoms, you must isolate immediately and contact your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 611 116 . The symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to common illnesses such as a cold or influenza. You may have one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough fever (at least 38˚C) shortness of breath a sore throat sneezing and runny nose muscle aches fatigue loss of taste and/or smell. Remember, it's better to act with caution than be complacent about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- For everyone else in Auckland, travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. This is to help stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Learn more about personal travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area Learn more about business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area
The three cases detected in the community are a mother, father and daughter from the same South Auckland household. The mother and daughter were tested initially when they felt symptomatic. They have now returned positive tests with relatively low CT values, which indicates they are new and active infections. Their test results came through late last night. The father was tested following their results and his result came through late this morning. The cases have one other household contact in their family unit. This person is also being tested and their results are pending. Immediately following the first two positive results, the household was placed in isolation. All four residents are moving to the Auckland quarantine facility today. Whole genome sequencing is being rapidly carried out so we can learn whether these infections are one of the more transmissible variants reported overseas, which we’ve also detected around other border-related cases in New Zealand recently. The latest information about locations of interest related to these cases can be found on the Ministry of Health website, which will be updated more information becomes available. Learn more about the locations of interest (external link) Last weekend, potentially around the time the cases may have been developing symptoms but would have been unaware of this, two of the cases travelled to New Plymouth where they visited a number tourist locations. At this stage, it is unsure whether the two people were infectious during this period – but the Ministry of Health is acting with caution. In Auckland, the hours for the regional community testing centres in Northcote, Balmoral, Henderson and Otara are being extended today. The community testing centre in Wiri is also open today. Additional testing will be set up for Papatoetoe High School community from tomorrow, more information on this will be shared with the school later today. We anticipate a high demand at COVID-19 testing sites and delays are possible, so please be patient. Further information on community testing station hours is available on the Auckland Regional Public Health Service website. Find a community testing centre near you (external link) It’s important the right people can get access to testing — so please don’t rush to a centre if you are well, or if you weren’t at one of the locations of interest. A reminder that if you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms you do not need to be tested. If you were at the locations of interest at the times stated, you need to get a test, and remain isolated until you receive the result. If you have symptoms but have not been to a location of interest stay home and call Healthline for advice on 0800 358 5453 . As always, if you are unwell with symptoms, take advice about getting tested before you head out – firstly by calling Healthline. A number of large-scale events are underway in Auckland today, including the Big Gay Out and the America’s Cup. At this stage, based on public health advice we believe it is appropriate for these events to continue with a reminder that everyone is to take all the usual precautions, in particular if you have any symptoms. We can enjoy events safely if we all play our part. We appreciate some event organisers may choose not to go ahead with planned events so attendees should check in advance before attending. Please respect the rights of hosts to make these decisions. We are constantly reviewing the situation and will let you know if there is additional information to share. Continue practicing those simple health behaviours that’ll protect your families and others and keep the virus in check. Stay home if you’re feeling unwell and get advice about a COVID-19 test Wash your hands Scan QR codes Turn on Bluetooth tracing on the NZ COVID Tracer app. Put up plenty of QR code posters in your shop/café/restaurant/bar Invite your customers to scan in as they enter Encourage everyone to wash or sanitise their hands All public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries Domestic flights throughout New Zealand Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to.
They included a range of people, such as aviation security workers, cleaners, police, customs workers and health protection officers who screen passengers arriving on international flights. On 23 February, 35 of the Canterbury-based vaccination team gave and received the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine to prepare for today’s rollout. About 20% of New Zealand’s approximately 12,000 border and managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) workers are based in Canterbury. "These people play a critical role at the frontline of our continued efforts to keep the virus out of our communities. We’re very grateful for their commitment and hard work. They’re the most at risk of exposure to COVID-19 and it is important that we prioritise their protection," said COVID-19 Vaccine Immunisation Programme Clinical Lead Dr Joe Bourne. Canterbury DHB clinician Dr Alan Pithie, Consultant Physician in Infectious Diseases and General Medicine, said the rollout of the immunisation programme in Canterbury was an important milestone in the fight against COVID-19. "Our staff are putting in a huge amount of work to provide those at the border in Canterbury with the best protection against COVID-19. "This is just the start of the vaccination rollout, and we are confident that the system we have created is robust and efficient. We are really proud of our team, this is obviously a new situation for everyone, but it is incredibly important that we complete this first phase as quickly as possible," said Dr Pithie. The vaccines have been transported in special containers to the South Island after being transported there from the ultra-low temperature (ULT) storage facility in Auckland. Health Protection Officer Debbie Smith said she was relieved to get vaccinated today against COVID-19. "It’s another level of armour and I feel like a superhero on the inside now. Working on the frontline, you tend to live your life differently. There have been events I’ve thought twice about going to because of the potential risk I pose and that’s where the vaccination is going to let me live my life a little bit more normally, I hope." Her colleague and fellow Health Protection Officer, Jimmy Wong, said getting vaccinated was a huge relief because it meant greater protection for his family. "I've got a 3-month-old baby at the moment and it’s very important to me to do what I can to protect myself and to protect my family." Both have worked at Christchurch International Airport since 26 January last year, and one of their key roles is health screening people returning to New Zealand on international flights. This puts them in close contact with people potentially with COVID-19. Airport cleaner Cherry* said she was very keen to get vaccinated and pleased to get that opportunity today as one of the first in Christchurch. "I'm happy I can protect myself and my family. I have felt a little nervous working at the airport and this is a real relief." She works full-time for OCS Ltd at the airport and her role includes sanitising touch points, clearing rubbish and ensuring surfaces remain clean and safe. * This person has asked to be referred to only by her first name.
The case is an airline crew member who returned to New Zealand from Japan on 28 February, and returned a negative COVID-19 result. The person then returned a positive test result today after a swab taken yesterday as part of routine surveillance testing. The person has today moved to Auckland’s quarantine facility. The individual’s 3 household family members have already been tested today and the results are all negative. Fourteen other air crew on the same journey as the latest case are in the process of being contacted, isolated and retested. The latest case was a frequent user of the NZ COVID Tracer app, which is helping public health staff identify potential exposure events and assess any risks from their activities. Any individuals identified as contacts by public health staff will receive specific advice about the steps they need to take. Results from genome sequencing are expected on Tuesday and will help rule out any local transmission. A further update will be provided tomorrow. --- Section Separator --- The Public Health initial assessment is there is low risk to the public because: Auckland was at Alert Level 3 while this case was back in New Zealand, and the case was either in isolation or at home for most of that time. --- Section Separator --- There is currently 1 location of interest — the Auckland Airport Countdown on 3 March between 12:07pm and 1:22pm. Anyone who was at the store at this time is asked to monitor their health for the next 10 days, until 17 March. If you feel unwell or develop symptoms: call Healthline on 0800 358 5454 , and get tested and stay at home until you receive a negative test result. Testing locations in Auckland (external link) Testing is available at 6 community testing centres throughout Auckland as well as at general practices and urgent care clinics. There is currently good capacity in the testing system, and the community testing centres in Otara in South Auckland and Wiri in West Auckland have additional staff available to meet any increase in demand. There is also 1 health appointment currently being assessed. All those attending the same clinic at the same time are being identified and will be contacted and provided specific health advice.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report in New Zealand since the media statement yesterday. There are no new cases in the community. Update on COVID-19 cases for 10 February 2021 (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference
Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Transcript of the 4pm media conference --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Transcript of the 10:30am media conference
The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Minister of Finance Grant Robertson Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1:30pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- There are 4 new cases of COVID-19 in to report in New Zealand since our media statement yesterday. One of these cases is in managed isolation.  Three cases are community cases. Update on cases for 14 February 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts around 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference at Radio New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases in the community outside of the 3 cases announced yesterday. For formal reporting figures, the third community case is included in our numbers today. There are 5 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation, one of which is historical. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases of COVID-19 in the community and no cases in managed isolation to report today. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are two new cases of COVID-19 in the community, and one new case in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The first COVID-19 vaccinations for New Zealand border workers will take place in Auckland today. A media conference will be held at 1:30pm. Representatives of the first border workers vaccinated will be present, along with a range of other spokespeople. Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 3 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation. There are no new cases in the community outside of the 3 cases announced yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 3pm. Speaker: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Today, we have two new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation, and no new cases linked to the Auckland February cluster. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 9pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Update on cases for 1 March from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are two new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. One of these cases is historical and deemed not infectious. Update on cases for 3 March from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are 6 new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. Update on cases for 4 March 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for Emergency Management Kiri Allan Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases of COVID-19  to report in the community today. There are no new cases to report in managed isolation. Update on cases for 5 March 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 7pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- There are 4 new cases of COVID-19 in to report in New Zealand since our media statement yesterday. One of these cases is in managed isolation.  Three cases are community cases. Update on cases for 14 February 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The Ministry of Health confirmed the patient was transferred from a managed isolation facility into hospital-level care for the treatment of a serious non-COVID-19 related condition on 5 February. This person subsequently returned a positive result for COVID-19 following their admission. This positive result has been reported previously. The patient spoke with family daily, either by Zoom or phone. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield recognised the family’s loss on behalf of New Zealanders. ‘This is a time for us all to offer our deep sympathy, while also respecting the family’s privacy.’ The death has not been included in official COVID-related deaths at this stage. Further information will be provided on Monday.
The COVID-19 vaccines media conference starts at 9am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Watch the media conference.
The trial run at the Auckland quarantine facility today has confirmed the processes and systems are ready ahead of our first official day vaccinating border and MIQ workers on Saturday 20 February. Today the Ministry of Health vaccinated 25 Auckland-based vaccinators who will start giving the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to border and MIQ staff from tomorrow. There were two teams involved in today’s trial run. This is the first time we’ve used this vaccine and it’s our first vaccine that needs ultra-low temperature storage, so it’s important we check and fine-tune our processes and give vaccinators an opportunity to handle the vaccine. It’s appropriate to protect our vaccinators who will play an important role in the coming weeks and months. These vaccinators will start administering vaccines to frontline border and MIQ workers from tomorrow. Earlier this week, we did a ‘dry run’, which focused on challenging immunisation teams in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch to practise responding to a number of scenarios that deviate from the usual vaccine process. We’ll start to vaccinate border and MIQ workers at the Auckland quarantine facility tomorrow, and have chosen to do it at their workplace to make it as easy as possible for them to get vaccinated. Next Monday we’ll roll out the programme in Wellington and Christchurch on Wednesday, before starting to vaccinate the rest of New Zealand’s about 12,000 border and MIQ workers over the next few weeks. Border and MIQ workers are most at-risk of coming into contact with the COVID-19 virus and that’s why we’re offering to vaccinate them first to better protect them. Once they’ve been vaccinated, we’ll start vaccinating their household contacts. We’re confident we’re ready for tomorrow’s rollout, which is a significant milestone in New Zealand’s fight against COVID-19. Rolling out our immunisation programme across Aotearoa will take a full year – we’re not in a race to be first, but we are committed to ensuring safe and timely access to COVID-19 vaccines for everyone in New Zealand.
Today’s vaccinations reinforce the value of what we’ve all been doing for the past 12 months to keep COVID-19 at bay. Vaccination of our hard working and dedicated border staff marks a significant step forward — a milestone that protects those at highest risk of getting the virus and helps to reduce the risk of it spreading into the community. Yesterday, 29 vaccinators in Auckland completed a week of preparations by receiving the first COVID-19 vaccines. Today, we kick off the largest immunisation programme in our history by vaccinating the first of our border workforce, a critical step in protecting everyone in Aotearoa. This is an important first step and we will be moving through these first few days and weeks in a measured way to make sure our systems and processes are solid. On Monday, we’ll roll out the programme in Wellington, and then Christchurch on Wednesday, before starting to vaccinate the rest of New Zealand’s 12,000 border and MIQ workers over the next few weeks. Once they’ve been vaccinated, we’ll start vaccinating their household contacts. The finer details of the wider public rollout later in the year are being finalised, and information on when and how people can get their vaccinations will be announced soon. People from across the health system and many other agencies have been and continue to be single-minded in ensuring that the vaccination programme will be a sustained success. In a rapidly changing environment, our system has had to be flexible in its response to delivering firstly on our elimination strategy and now on the vaccination programme. It’s been a huge logistical effort getting to where we are today. And it’s been done while our health system has continued to deliver a wide range of care to New Zealanders and maintained a successful response to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Repeated trial runs of our processes and systems meant we have been able to deliver these first vaccinations less than a week after the first batch of Pfizer/BioNTech arrived in New Zealand. Today represents a small but important step in a long journey. It’s the start of a new chapter but we still have a long way to go in the book. This remains a tricky virus and will require all our efforts for some time to come to manage. Even though vaccinations have begun, it’s important everyone stays vigilant and sticks to the basics: washing hands, coughing and sneezing into the elbow, and wearing masks or face coverings on all public transport. Continue to use the COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been, scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app dashboard. If the research, good science and technology behind these vaccines seems highly sophisticated — it is. We can have confidence in both the science and the processes that New Zealand has in place to ensure any vaccines we use are safe and effective. Our success with this campaign will be achieved in the same way we have achieved success with our response — by acting collectively and in each others’ interests.
The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. --- Section Separator --- The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database.
"Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. To isolate at their usual home. To not go out to work, and remain isolated, until they are contacted by their national contact tracing service, and they receive further direction. This direction applies to the following people: any employees or contractors of 2 employers: Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. Americold in Mt Wellington (Auckland) Finance Now the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. any visitors to those workplaces in the last 14 days, and any people who ordinary live with those employees, or contractors, or visitors. If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health
Officials have been working on logistics for months, and the dry run gave them an opportunity to stress-test the system, identify any gaps and put plans in place for any event. Testing included things such as vaccines being dropped and technology systems being temporarily unavailable, and included the arrival of a thermal protection box used to transport the vaccine to validate the safe and secure handover process. The final steps in preparing for the first border workers to receive their vaccines and for the start of the overall programme will include the vaccinators who will vaccinate the border workers receiving the vaccines themselves. This will take place tomorrow. While our workforce modelling shows we only need 100 vaccinators to immunise everyone who works at our border, we already have more than that who have completed the necessary training to administer the Pfizer vaccines, and hundreds more set to complete it in coming weeks.
The Government has signed an advance purchase agreement for 8.5 million additional doses of the Pfizer/BioNtech vaccine, enough to vaccinate 4.25 million people. The vaccines are expected to arrive in New Zealand during the second half of the year. This brings our total Pfizer order to 10 million doses, or enough for 5 million people to get the 2 shots needed to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The Government’s original agreement with Pfizer was for about 1.5 million doses, enough to vaccinate 750,000 people. The decision to make Pfizer New Zealand’s main vaccine provider was based on the fact the Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be about 95% effective at preventing symptomatic infection. It also means all New Zealanders will have the chance to access the same vaccine. While the Pfizer vaccine does need to be kept at ultra-cold temperatures, this challenge is offset by only having to deal with one vaccine, rather than multiple vaccines with multiple protocols. It will make our vaccine rollout simpler. This purchase marks a significant milestone in New Zealand’s fight against COVID-19. We can take heart that we’ve now secured one of the strongest and more effective tools in the COVID-19 toolkit. With every person who gets vaccinated, New Zealand gets 1 step closer to moving away from restrictions to manage COVID-19. This is a significant addition to our COVID-19 vaccine portfolio. It indicates our confidence in the vaccine’s performance to date and our demonstrated ability to administer it. The Ministry of Health is now working with Pfizer on a delivery schedule for these additional vaccines, which will ensure a smooth rollout and a scaling up of our vaccination programme as we start to immunise the general public from the middle of the year. Consideration is also being given to how best to use vaccine doses that do not end up being needed in New Zealand. We are working on options for donating surplus doses across our wider portfolio to the Pacific and developing countries worldwide. We are committed to ensuring that any doses not needed in New Zealand are put to good use elsewhere. Options could include delaying delivery to New Zealand in order to free up supply for other countries in the short term, or donating spare vaccines to other countries. We are also working closely with the Realm countries Niue, Tokelau and the Cook Islands, as well as our close neighbours Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu to provide access to our vaccine portfolio and provide wider support for vaccine rollout.
The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: oversight of all processes within the facilities provision of testing enforcement of rules logistical supply chains such as PPE coordination of relevant agencies standing up of new facilities continued oversight of repatriation flights accountability for those people who are in charge of each facility. “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: end to end induction process general security and safety of travellers provision of health services; and standardisation of procedures including COVID testing and screening. “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb.
The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: increased security for transferring returnees to managed isolation facilities the standardisation of procedures across all facilities The introduction of better information for returnees — from flight boarding through to entry into New Zealand and their exit from managed isolation. Better information to communities where those facilities are located. Strengthening of demand forecasting, reporting functions and coordination between agencies. Health responses include: more staff in facilities improved model of care — including taking into account issues like mental health and addiction issues more clinical oversight to ensure a consistent quality of service in facilities monitoring to ensure there is consistency across facilities. “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] --- Section Separator --- At departure airport. Check in for flight — information on which town passenger will complete managed isolation in is provided On flight to New Zealand — passengers informed by PA of the town they will complete managed isolation in (whole flight goes to same town). On landing at the international terminal: Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). Government escort: Passengers are met by government officials who escort them onto their transport for the move into managed isolation. They are kept separate from all other people at the airport throughout the process. Physical distancing within their group is also requested and they are asked to wear masks throughout. Health screening. If high risk, moved separately through airport processes from remainder of flight. All passengers (low or high risk) are provided high-level 6 point document on what to expect from managed isolation. Customs / Immigration — as normal with physical distancing. Bag collection — as normal with physical distancing. Biosecurity — as normal with physical distancing. Provided information by government representatives on managed isolation location and journey time, and provided with refreshments and restroom stops (dependent on the transfer length). On landing at domestic terminal: All passengers on the flight are transferred into buses airside. Passengers wear PPE and practise physical distancing on the bus journey. On arrival at managed isolation facility Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Moved through check-in process and provided with welcome pack outlining everything they need to know while in isolation. Some activities vary depending on the hotel, for example some hotels provide a meal request sheet for the following 3 days. Move to room and settle in. Returnees are provided with basic toiletries (2 to 3 days’ supply), towels and bedding. Routine during stay in a managed isolation facility Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Meals provided to room and left at door (3 meals daily). Food can be ordered in from local places. Fresh-air options vary on the nature of the hotel, and are mostly run on a schedule basis. Each managed isolation facility has an onsite team to provide a 24/7 service including health, security and general support. Health and welfare calls are made regularly and follow-on support is facilitated through the health team. This includes questions on whether the returnee may have symptoms. Communal facilities are not in use, for example gyms and pools. The hotel staff manage the provision of meals, cleaning of public areas and laundry and work closely with the government onsite team. Teams made up of government officials including security and health professionals support the returnees in each managed isolation facility. Specific activities Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. Around day 3 and day 12, the returnee will be tested for COVID-19. Any positive results lead to a move to a quarantine facility. Day 12 departure planning to ensure that (subject to a negative test) the returnee has a plan. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. If returnee shows symptoms they are referred to health services to have a COVID test and move to quarantine facility where they remain for at least the remainder of their 14 day period. Health check completed before departure. On departure Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs. Certificate of Managed Isolation attendance given to returnee. Transport provided to original airport if required. Returnee departs.
At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1
Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2
New Zealand’s first batch of Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is set to arrive in New Zealand next week subject to transportation plans and quality temperature control. Government representatives have been in conversations with Pfizer on a constant basis for the last few weeks. We appreciate the effort the company has gone to to deliver the first instalment earlier than originally anticipated. Last year we indicated the vaccine would arrive in quarter 2 (April, May and June), and earlier this year we updated that to quarter 1 (January, February and March). It’s pleasing to be receiving doses this early in quarter 1. The arrival of our first batch of doses is an important milestone in our fight against COVID-19. We now anticipate further deliveries through quarter 1 from Pfizer. Our first priority is our border workers, who we expect to vaccinate within 2 to 3 weeks followed by their household contacts. Healthcare and essential workers and those most at risk from COVID-19 will follow in quarter 2, before vaccination of the wider population in the second half of the year. The first vaccinations to border workers were on track to be administered in the same week as the vaccine’s arrival in New Zealand. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine requires 2 doses and must be stored at -70 degrees centigrade. Systems and processes are in place for the first vaccinations to start once final checks have been completed. On arrival, the vaccine must be independently tested for quality assurance, which is another important safety check. The doses will then be formally released to start the first phase of the vaccination programme. At this stage, we are expecting to start offering the vaccine to our border and managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) workers on 20 February, with the first immunisations given out to those working in the Auckland region.
The case, known as Case M, is an older sibling of a Papatoetoe High School student who was a casual plus contact. The student had returned 3 recent negative tests and is asymptomatic. Public health officials are undertaking interviews to help establish how this new case was infected. Testing of the household of five is underway. Test results for the other family members are expected this evening. Genome sequencing is currently underway and is expected later this evening and will provide us with more information. Case M developed symptoms on Tuesday 23 February. As a result, the person is regarded as being potentially infectious from Sunday 21 February. The person was tested yesterday (Friday 26 February) and the result was received this afternoon. There are a number of locations of interest, details of which will be available on the Ministry of Health’s website and will be updated progressively from this evening. The Ministry will also provide advice on what to do if you were at any of these locations at the time when you could potentially have been exposed. Please only call Healthline on 0800 611 116 if you were potentially exposed. Learn more about the locations of interest (external link) Find a testing location in Auckland (external link) Find testing locations nationwide (external link)
The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code
While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery. We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.
Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB]
Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said.
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. --- Section Separator --- The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: recovered charges do not exceed the actual costs of managed isolation and quarantine no upfront payment would be required there would be flexibility in how people could pay. Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) --- Section Separator --- The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: $3,100 per person in a room $950 for each additional adult, and $475 for each additional child sharing the room. The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Any New Zealander, who either: leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force, or is visiting New Zealand for less than 90 days. Any temporary visa holder, unless: they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand as of 19 March 2020, and they departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020, and they are not entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Family members travelling or isolating with people who do not have to pay charges (unless they are entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker). New Zealand citizens deported to New Zealand. Diplomats and official government representatives. Any person travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the accused in the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees and protected persons for their first entry into New Zealand after the charges come into force. Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. --- Section Separator --- It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. --- Section Separator --- Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon.
To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. It also enables those affected to be visited immediately at homes or at work by Auckland public health officials. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. --- Section Separator --- On Friday 5 March a Section 70 order was issued. This applies to the following people: Any person who attended the City Fitness Gym at Hunters Plaza, at 217 Great South Road, Papatoetoe, in Auckland on 20 February 2021 between 11:15am and 1:45pm, or 26 February 2021 between 3:25pm and 4:30pm. Any other person who has already been contacted by Auckland Regional Public Health Service and advised they are a close plus, close or casual plus contact during this outbreak and who is still required to isolate and/or be tested, to continue to comply with the following instructions regarding isolation and testing they have been given by the relevant public health unit. These people are required to do three things: to isolate at their usual home to report for and undergo medical testing for COVID-19 at a time and place to be specified by a medical officer of health, and except as required in order to undergo testing as directed, to remain isolated until they receive further direction from a medical officer of health. Public health officials will also discuss with these people the support available to help them meet these requirements.
Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date.
Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: The returnee is isolated in their room, whilst a dedicated quarantine transfer vehicle is sent from the quarantine facility. The vehicle is crewed by a driver and an assistant in PPE. Upon arrival of the transfer vehicle at the managed isolation facility, the returnee(s) is moved to the vehicle, with luggage placed in a trailer. Upon arrival at the Quarantine facility, the returnee(s) is processed by facility and health staff in PPE. Following departure from the managed isolation facility, the positive case(s)’s room is sealed for ten days, after which time it is given a deep clean. I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made.
The siblings are a teenager and an infant. The parents and a third older sibling have returned negative tests. The family has been transferred to the Auckland quarantine facility. Today’s initial case, a Papatoetoe High School student known as Case I, has not been at school. They are a casual plus contact of the initial case at Papatoetoe High School and had been advised to self-isolate and get tested. The teenage sibling, known as Case J, recently finished school and has been working at Kmart Botany. Case J was at work on Friday 19 February and Saturday 20 February between 4pm and 10pm. Kmart Botany is regarded as a location of interest. Therefore anyone who was at Kmart Botany, 500 Ti Rakau Drive, Botany Downs, at these times is considered a casual plus contact. If you are a casual plus contact, you are advised to immediately isolate at home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on isolation timeframes and testing requirements. Thirty-one staff at Kmart have already been identified as close contacts and are isolating and being provided with public health advice. Other locations of interest for the three cases are continuing to be investigated and will be notified when available. The infant, known as Case K, does not have childcare outside the home. A testing centre was set up at the school early afternoon and 672 tests were done today. Testing will be available again at the school tomorrow. The school community has been requested to return to complete testing if they did not receive it today. The Ministry is advising everyone in a Papatoetoe High School household must stay away from work or any other school, educational facility or community setting (e.g. the supermarket or any other place outside the home). The school remains closed and no students or staff will be able to return until advised by a Medical Officer of Health. At this point, household members who are not students or staff do not need to be retested, unless they have symptoms or are asked to do so. We will be providing updates on contact tracing tomorrow. Whole genome sequencing of Case I will be available tomorrow.
There are 2 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report in New Zealand since our media statement yesterday. There are no new cases in the community. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There is one historical case of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report in New Zealand since our media statement yesterday. Historical cases are not considered to be currently infectious. There are no new cases in the community. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases in the community outside of the 3 cases announced yesterday. For formal reporting figures, the third community case is included in our numbers today. There are 5 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation, one of which is historical. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are two new cases of COVID-19 in the community, and one new case in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
There are 2 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation. There are no new cases in the community, nor any linked to the Auckland February cluster. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There is one new case of COVID-19 in the community linked to the existing Auckland February cases, a household contact of previous cases D, E and F. The case (case G) is a household contact of cases D, E and F which we announced on Wednesday. This person had previously returned a negative test, taken on Monday 15 February and has been isolating at home and is in the process of transferring to the Auckland quarantine facility. There is one additional member of this household, who has returned a negative test result, but is also being transferred to the Auckland quarantine facility. Genome sequencing has been completed for case F and shows a clear link to other cases in the cluster. There are three new cases in managed isolation. One of the cases in managed isolation is classified as historical and deemed not infectious. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are 6 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation, four of which are historical. There is one new community case, linked to the Auckland February cases, who is already in quarantine. The new community case of COVID-19 is linked to the existing Auckland February cases and the individual has been in quarantine since Friday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 media conference starts at 3pm. Speaker: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. Watch the media conference.
Today, we have three new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation, and no new cases linked to the Auckland February cluster. One of the three cases today in managed isolation today is a historical case and not regarded as infectious. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new COVID-19 cases in the community to report since yesterday evening when we reported the community case, Case O. There is one new case of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
Today,  there are 2 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation and 1 new community case, a person linked to the Auckland February cases and who has been in quarantine from Tuesday 23 February to report today. The latest community case (Case L) is a household contact of cases I, J and K. This person was tested on arrival into quarantine and returned a negative result. This individual then developed symptoms and returned a positive test.  As the person was possibly infectious for up to 48 hours prior to developing symptoms, Case L’s workplace is being treated as a location of interest. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for Emergency Management Kiri Allan Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases of COVID-19  to report in the community today. There are no new cases to report in managed isolation. The total number of active cases in New Zealand is 68. Our total number of confirmed cases is 2,033. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are 9 new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are 5 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. One border-related case reported last night will be officially added to today’s tally. There are no new cases in the community. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are 2 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report in New Zealand since our media statement yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The results, which came through overnight, show the COVID-19 variant B1.1.7 first detected in the UK. The results from these cases do not link directly to any other positive cases detected in New Zealand to date. ESR is now conducting a scan of the international genome database to see if there is a match. This result reinforces the decision to take swift and robust action around the latest cases to detect and stamp out the possibility of any further transmission. An intensive source investigation around the latest cases continues, along with public health actions and Alert Level changes outlined yesterday, designed to break any potential chains of transmission.
For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: getting a voucher to secure your place charges and exemptions facility locations what managed isolation is like Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link)
Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: $3,100 for the first person in the room $950 for each additional adult sharing the room $475 for each additional child (aged 3 to 17 years) sharing that room. There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Any New Zealander who is currently overseas and enters New Zealand after the regulations come into force for less than 90 days will be liable for charges, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Any New Zealander who leaves New Zealand after the regulations come into force (for example for a holiday or business) will be liable for charges when they return, unless they are exempt or qualify for a waiver. Everyone entering New Zealand on a border exception as a critical worker will have to pay. In many cases, their employers will pay their managed isolation and quarantine costs. Other temporary visa holders are liable for the charges, unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand at the time the border closed and departed New Zealand on or before 19 March 2020. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Partners, dependent children and legal guardians who are isolating or travelling with someone who is exempt from paying charges, unless they are entering under a critical worker border exception. Someone in New Zealand who goes into managed isolation to care for a person who is exempt from charges. Anyone travelling to New Zealand to attend the sentencing of the person convicted of the Christchurch mosque attacks. Refugees, including claimants, protected persons and applicants under the special immigration category for victims of domestic violence, when they enter New Zealand for the first time. Anyone entering New Zealand after a medical air transfer or rescue at sea. Patients travelling as part of the Ministry of Health High Cost Treatment Pool or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade New Zealand Medical Treatment Scheme. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau who are travelling to New Zealand for medical treatment. New Zealand citizens ordinarily resident in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau, travelling from a third country through New Zealand (staying less than 90 days) in order to return to the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau (staying at least 90 days). People being deported to New Zealand, defined as “returning offenders” (in the Returning Offenders (Management and Information) Act 2015) and any New Zealand citizen deported from Australia. Diplomats and consular staff, including their families, and official government representatives. Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: a New Zealander entering managed isolation because they left New Zealand to accompany a vulnerable or disabled person back to New Zealand someone needing to travel to or from New Zealand to receive medical treatment other compassionate grounds, including when a person has travelled to visit a seriously ill or dying close relative or attend a funeral or tangihanga, whether in New Zealand or overseas. People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice.
The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks
Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 247 updates 08 Mar 2021 The Government has guaranteed that every New Zealander will have access to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, after securing an additional 8.5 million doses. 08 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 vaccines media conference with government officials and ministers. 08 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Mar 2021 A border-related case of COVID-19 has been identified today as part of routine surveillance testing. 06 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Mar 2021 On Friday 5 March a Section 70 order was issued. This applies to certain people, who are required to do three things. 05 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 05 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 03 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 11-20 of 247 updates 02 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 01 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 01 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Feb 2021 A further person linked to the Auckland February cluster, who is already in the Auckland quarantine facility, has tested positive for COVID-19. 28 Feb 2021 With Auckland now at Alert Level 3, here is some advice for those needing to travel in, out and through Auckland to return home. 28 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 28 Feb 2021 There are two cases of COVID-19 in the community to report. These cases were reported yesterday evening, and are part of the Auckland February cluster. 27 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Feb 2021 The Ministry of Health has this afternoon been notified of a positive case. 26 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 21-30 of 247 updates 25 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2021 About 40 border workers from Christchurch Airport have been vaccinated today as the COVID-19 immunisation programme starts rolling out in the South Island. 24 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 23 Feb 2021 The Ministry of Health was this afternoon notified that 2 siblings of today’s positive case from Papatoetoe High School have also tested positive for COVID-19. 23 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 22 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 3pm. 22 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Feb 2021 New Zealand has arrived at a key point in its pandemic response, with today’s first vaccinations of border workers. 20 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1:30pm. 20 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 201-210 of 247 updates 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 211-220 of 247 updates 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua.
Displaying 221-230 of 247 updates 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine.
Displaying 231-240 of 247 updates 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 241-247 of 247 updates 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 31-40 of 247 updates 19 Feb 2021 A small group of vaccinators have received their first COVID-19 vaccinations as part of final preparations before the rollout of the immunisation programme. 19 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 18 Feb 2021 A trial run of the end-to-end process shows our COVID-19 vaccination programme is ready to roll from Saturday, when the first border workers will be vaccinated. 17 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 4:30pm. 17 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 15 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers around 4pm. 15 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Feb 2021 The results of genomic sequencing for the first two Auckland February cases is now available.
Displaying 41-50 of 247 updates 14 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with the Prime Minister at 7pm. 14 Feb 2021 The Ministry of Health has today confirmed there are 3 new community cases detected in the Auckland region with a connection to Taranaki. 14 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1:30pm. 13 Feb 2021 We are very sad to confirm the death of a patient with COVID-19 at North Shore Hospital. 12 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Feb 2021 New Zealand’s first batch of Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is set to arrive in New Zealand next week. 12 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 vaccines media conference with government officials and ministers at 9am. 11 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 09 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 247 updates 06 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 06 Feb 2021 An individual who had previously been a guest at the managed isolation facility at the Pullman Hotel has tested positive for COVID-19. 05 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1:30pm. 03 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 vaccines media conference with government officials at 2.45pm. 03 Feb 2021 Medsafe has provisionally approved New Zealand's first COVID-19 vaccine. 03 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 29 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm.
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Proactive release Proactive release Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release --- Section Separator --- We have returned to pre-COVID processes for proactive releases. Please contact the relevant agency for the release of further information relating to COVID-19. This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- We have returned to pre-COVID processes for proactive releases. Please contact the relevant agency for the release of further information relating to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Border --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Education --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Health response --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Housing --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Income support measures --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Offshore issues --- Section Separator --- There are no documents in the “Offshore issues” category for the 9 October 2020 proactive release. --- Section Separator --- There are no documents in the “Offshore issues” category for the 9 October 2020 proactive release. --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Supporting the economy --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. If you receive a scam or anything that you suspect is a scam, you can report it to CERT NZ to investigate. Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 vaccine scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19 phishing and cyber scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19 investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. If you receive a scam or anything that you suspect is a scam, you can report it to CERT NZ to investigate. Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 vaccine scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19 phishing and cyber scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19 investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Posters --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes — All Alert Levels [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes — All Alert Levels [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Social media community guidelines Social media community guidelines Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Social media and newsletters Social media community guidelines --- Section Separator --- We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. --- Section Separator --- We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. --- Section Separator --- Social media community guidelines
He mahere mātau tonu tā te Kāwanatanga hei whai rongoā ārai Mate Korona mō ngā tāngata o Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- He mahere mātau tonu tā te Kāwanatanga hei whai rongoā ārai Mate Korona mō ngā tāngata o Aotearoa.
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- He wāhanga nui tō ngā rongoā āraimate haumaru, whaihua hoki, ki te tiaki i a Aotearoa me ō tātou kiritata Moana nui a Kiwa, i te KOWHEORI-19. He mea nui ngā rongoā ārai mate ki te whakaora, ki te whakatuwhera anō hoki i ō tātou tomokanga ā-motu. Kāore he utu ki ngā rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea me whakamahi e te pāpori o Aotearoa. Ka whakarite tiakanga anamata ngā rongoā ārai mate. I tēnei wā, me mahi tahi tātou ki te pare i te KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori i te roanga o 2021. Me whai tātou i ngā tikanga nui e whā; te horoi ringaringa, te matawai waehere urupare tere, te whakahihiko hono iarere, me te noho ki te kāinga mehemea e māuiui ana. I a tātou ka uru ki tēnei taumata hou i tā tātou whawhai ki te KOWHEORI-19, me mātua whai i ngā pārongo nō ngā puna whai mana. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētehi hoariri ki a tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Ka taea ngā pārongo whai mana te tiki ake i; tō Tākuta, Healthline , te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe, Te Manatū Hauora me te paetukutuku o www.covid19.govt.nz . Kua whiwhi te Kāwanatanga i ētehi rongoā ārai mate mō te katoa o te motu, hei tautoko hoki i ō tātou kiritata Moana-nui-a-Kiwa. Kei te Kāwanatanga ētehi Whakataunga Whakaaetanga Wawe e whā mō ngā rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Kei raro aua whakaaetanga i te āhua o ngā whakamātautau rongoā, me te whakaaetanga a Medsafe. Ko Medsafe te kaiwawao rongoā motuhake o Aotearoa. E arotake ana i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou, tae noa ki ngā rongoā ārai mate. Me mātua aro ngā rongoā ārai mate ki ngā paerewa ā-ao whānui me ngā herenga ārohe mō te kounga, te haumaru me te whaihua, e whakaaetia ai, e whakamahia ai i Aotearoa nei. E whakapai ana a Medsafe i ana tukanga aromatawai, e whakamātāmua ana hoki i te arotakenga o ngā rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, i tēnā o ētehi atu rongoā, e tere ake ai te rironga mai o tētehi rongoā ārai mate. Ka hōmiromiro nuitia tonutia ngā rongoā ārai mate, pērā i te katoa o ngā rongoā. Ko ētehi o ngā rongoā ārai mate e toru, he pota-rua Pfizer me te BioNTech – 1.5 miriona ngā pota (he rahinga mō ngā tāngata 750,000). Oxford me te AstraZeneca – 7.6 miriona ngā pota (he rahinga mō ngā tāngata 3.8 million). Novavax – 10.72 miriona ngā pota (he rahinga mō ngā tāngata 5.36 miriona). Ko tētehi rongoā ārai mate, he pota kotahi: Janssen Pharmaceutica – ko tōna 5 miriona rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. E whakarite ana Te Manatū Hauora i tētehi rautaki e matatika ai te tohaina o ngā rongoā ārai mate. Ko te hunga nui te tūraru, pērā i ngā kaimahi tomokanga ā-motu, i ngā kaimahi hauora, i a ngāi Māori, i a ngāi Moana-nui-a-Kiwa, te hunga kaumātua, me te hunga hauā, ka whakamātāmuatia. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka rongoātia, ko ngā kaimahi tiaki tomokanga ā-motu, me ngā kaimahi o ngā Puni Whakamohoao, Taratahi ( MIQ ) nā tā rātou mahi ki te ārai i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Waihoki ngā kaiwhakapaipai MIQ , ngā nēhi whakahaere whakamātautau hauora i ngā MIQ , ngā kaimahi haumaru, ngā āpiha tomokanga āmotu, tiaki tomonga whenua, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, me ngā kaimahi hōtēra, me ētehi atu. Ko te hunga hoki e noho ngātahi ana me rātou ngā mea tuatahi ka rongoātia. Kua whakaaetia te rongoā ārai mate Pfizer/BioNTech i raro i ēnei tohutohu: E whakaaetia ana te rongoā ārai mate mō te hunga 16 tau nei te pakeke, piki ake. Ka whakaaetia pea te rongoā ārai mate mō te hunga i raro i te 16 o ngā tau te pakeke, ka wātea ana ētehi atu raraunga pūtaiao. E tohutohungia ana ngā wāhine hapū kia kōrerotia ngā tūraru me ngā painga o te rongoā ārai mate me ō rātou tākuta. E pai ana te rongoā ārai mate mō ngā wāhine waiū. Ko ngā tūroro e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga, pērā i te Keytruda, te Opdivo, te Yervoy me te Tecentriq, me kaua e whai rongoā ārai mate. Ko te hunga e whiwhi nei i te rongoā ārai mate ka whiwhi pārongo hoki mō ngā pānga mate āpiti, hei tauira, ko te karawaka, te uauá mamae me te ruha. Me mātua tutuki te mātaitanga 30-miniti i muri i te tukunga o te rongoā ārai mate. Ko ngā rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te pāpori whānui, ka rite ā te haurua tuarua o 2021. He wawe rawa kia mārama he pēwhea te pānga o ngā rongoā ārai mate i Aotearoa me te ao, ki ngā rerekētanga o ā tātou whakahaere tomokanga ā-motu. E mahi ana ngā kairangahau ki te tūtohu mehema he kaikawe tonu te tangata i rongoātia, ā, ka tukua te KOWHEORI-19 ki tangata kē atu. Kia mātau rā anō aua pārongo, me whakaū tonu tātou i ngā tikanga tomokanga ā-motu. Ko tā tātou e rautaki nei he whai kōwhiringa e whiwhi ai i ngā rongoā ārai mate e tika ana mō Aotearoa, he tautoko hoki i ō tātou iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa. E pai ana tā tātou ahu whakamua. Ko tā tātou he: whakapiri atu ki te Whare COVAX o te ao whiriwhiri raupapatanga whakaritenga hoko ki ngā kamupene hanga rongoā āwhina i ngā kaupapa hanga rongoā o te motu tautoko i te Ohu Kaupare Huaketo o Aotearoa ( VAANZ ) ki te whakatū kaupapa whakawhanake, whakamātau hoki i ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona e puta mai ana. Tirohia he kōrero atu anō mō tā tātou rautaki rongoā ārai Mate Korona (external link) Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta [PDF, 84 KB] Te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: Ngā Pātai e Auau ana te Uia [PDF, 88 KB] Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate [PDF, 80 KB] --- Section Separator --- He wāhanga nui tō ngā rongoā āraimate haumaru, whaihua hoki, ki te tiaki i a Aotearoa me ō tātou kiritata Moana nui a Kiwa, i te KOWHEORI-19. He mea nui ngā rongoā ārai mate ki te whakaora, ki te whakatuwhera anō hoki i ō tātou tomokanga ā-motu. Kāore he utu ki ngā rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea me whakamahi e te pāpori o Aotearoa. Ka whakarite tiakanga anamata ngā rongoā ārai mate. I tēnei wā, me mahi tahi tātou ki te pare i te KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori i te roanga o 2021. Me whai tātou i ngā tikanga nui e whā; te horoi ringaringa, te matawai waehere urupare tere, te whakahihiko hono iarere, me te noho ki te kāinga mehemea e māuiui ana. I a tātou ka uru ki tēnei taumata hou i tā tātou whawhai ki te KOWHEORI-19, me mātua whai i ngā pārongo nō ngā puna whai mana. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētehi hoariri ki a tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Ka taea ngā pārongo whai mana te tiki ake i; tō Tākuta, Healthline , te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe, Te Manatū Hauora me te paetukutuku o www.covid19.govt.nz . Kua whiwhi te Kāwanatanga i ētehi rongoā ārai mate mō te katoa o te motu, hei tautoko hoki i ō tātou kiritata Moana-nui-a-Kiwa. Kei te Kāwanatanga ētehi Whakataunga Whakaaetanga Wawe e whā mō ngā rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Kei raro aua whakaaetanga i te āhua o ngā whakamātautau rongoā, me te whakaaetanga a Medsafe. Ko Medsafe te kaiwawao rongoā motuhake o Aotearoa. E arotake ana i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou, tae noa ki ngā rongoā ārai mate. Me mātua aro ngā rongoā ārai mate ki ngā paerewa ā-ao whānui me ngā herenga ārohe mō te kounga, te haumaru me te whaihua, e whakaaetia ai, e whakamahia ai i Aotearoa nei. E whakapai ana a Medsafe i ana tukanga aromatawai, e whakamātāmua ana hoki i te arotakenga o ngā rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, i tēnā o ētehi atu rongoā, e tere ake ai te rironga mai o tētehi rongoā ārai mate. Ka hōmiromiro nuitia tonutia ngā rongoā ārai mate, pērā i te katoa o ngā rongoā. Ko ētehi o ngā rongoā ārai mate e toru, he pota-rua Pfizer me te BioNTech – 1.5 miriona ngā pota (he rahinga mō ngā tāngata 750,000). Oxford me te AstraZeneca – 7.6 miriona ngā pota (he rahinga mō ngā tāngata 3.8 million). Novavax – 10.72 miriona ngā pota (he rahinga mō ngā tāngata 5.36 miriona). Ko tētehi rongoā ārai mate, he pota kotahi: Janssen Pharmaceutica – ko tōna 5 miriona rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. E whakarite ana Te Manatū Hauora i tētehi rautaki e matatika ai te tohaina o ngā rongoā ārai mate. Ko te hunga nui te tūraru, pērā i ngā kaimahi tomokanga ā-motu, i ngā kaimahi hauora, i a ngāi Māori, i a ngāi Moana-nui-a-Kiwa, te hunga kaumātua, me te hunga hauā, ka whakamātāmuatia. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka rongoātia, ko ngā kaimahi tiaki tomokanga ā-motu, me ngā kaimahi o ngā Puni Whakamohoao, Taratahi ( MIQ ) nā tā rātou mahi ki te ārai i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Waihoki ngā kaiwhakapaipai MIQ , ngā nēhi whakahaere whakamātautau hauora i ngā MIQ , ngā kaimahi haumaru, ngā āpiha tomokanga āmotu, tiaki tomonga whenua, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, me ngā kaimahi hōtēra, me ētehi atu. Ko te hunga hoki e noho ngātahi ana me rātou ngā mea tuatahi ka rongoātia. Kua whakaaetia te rongoā ārai mate Pfizer/BioNTech i raro i ēnei tohutohu: E whakaaetia ana te rongoā ārai mate mō te hunga 16 tau nei te pakeke, piki ake. Ka whakaaetia pea te rongoā ārai mate mō te hunga i raro i te 16 o ngā tau te pakeke, ka wātea ana ētehi atu raraunga pūtaiao. E tohutohungia ana ngā wāhine hapū kia kōrerotia ngā tūraru me ngā painga o te rongoā ārai mate me ō rātou tākuta. E pai ana te rongoā ārai mate mō ngā wāhine waiū. Ko ngā tūroro e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga, pērā i te Keytruda, te Opdivo, te Yervoy me te Tecentriq, me kaua e whai rongoā ārai mate. Ko te hunga e whiwhi nei i te rongoā ārai mate ka whiwhi pārongo hoki mō ngā pānga mate āpiti, hei tauira, ko te karawaka, te uauá mamae me te ruha. Me mātua tutuki te mātaitanga 30-miniti i muri i te tukunga o te rongoā ārai mate. Ko ngā rongoā ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te pāpori whānui, ka rite ā te haurua tuarua o 2021. He wawe rawa kia mārama he pēwhea te pānga o ngā rongoā ārai mate i Aotearoa me te ao, ki ngā rerekētanga o ā tātou whakahaere tomokanga ā-motu. E mahi ana ngā kairangahau ki te tūtohu mehema he kaikawe tonu te tangata i rongoātia, ā, ka tukua te KOWHEORI-19 ki tangata kē atu. Kia mātau rā anō aua pārongo, me whakaū tonu tātou i ngā tikanga tomokanga ā-motu. Ko tā tātou e rautaki nei he whai kōwhiringa e whiwhi ai i ngā rongoā ārai mate e tika ana mō Aotearoa, he tautoko hoki i ō tātou iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa. E pai ana tā tātou ahu whakamua. Ko tā tātou he: whakapiri atu ki te Whare COVAX o te ao whiriwhiri raupapatanga whakaritenga hoko ki ngā kamupene hanga rongoā āwhina i ngā kaupapa hanga rongoā o te motu tautoko i te Ohu Kaupare Huaketo o Aotearoa ( VAANZ ) ki te whakatū kaupapa whakawhanake, whakamātau hoki i ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona e puta mai ana. Tirohia he kōrero atu anō mō tā tātou rautaki rongoā ārai Mate Korona (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta [PDF, 84 KB] Te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: Ngā Pātai e Auau ana te Uia [PDF, 88 KB] Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate [PDF, 80 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Ehara i te mea me mātua whai uwhi mata. Mā te mau uwhi mata i ngā wā kāore e taea te tīrara tonu i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau. Me takatū tātou ina tūpono puta mai anō a KOWHEORI-19 ki te hapori. Ka pai kia whakaemihia he uwhi mata mō te katoa kei tō kāinga e noho ana i te nuinga o te wā. E whakatenatenahia ana te mau o te uwhi mata i ngā wā kāore e taea te tū tīrara tonu i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, pēnei i te wā kei te hokomaha. Me mau hoki ngā uwhi mata e te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei ngā waka tūmatanui me ngā waka rererangi. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ērā ko ngā tereina, ko ngā pahi me ngā waka kōpiko. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ko ngā kaihautū o ngā waka iti e kawe pāhihi ana pēnei i te tēkehi me Uber . Ehara i te mea me mau: e te tangata e hauā ana, e pāngia ana rānei e te mate hinengaro e uaua ai ki a rātou te uwhi i ō rātou mata e ngā tamariki kāore anō kia 12 tau te pakeke i runga i ngā pahi o te kura e ngā pāhihi o ngā waka iti e kawe pāhihi ana, pēnei i te tēkehi me Uber i ngā haerenga mā runga waka kua āta tāpuia, i ngā haerenga rānei o te tira tāpoi i ngā waka kōpiko i tētahi moutere ki tētahi i ngā rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaikirimana tūmataiti e mahi nei i ngā ratonga rererangi, pēnei i te kaiwhakahaumako whenua mai i te rangi i ngā wā o te whawhati tata, i ngā wā rānei me taunaki rawa te tangata i tōna tuakiri, i ngā wā rānei me kōrero ki tētahi e turi ana. Mēnā ka pā tētahi o ēnei take ki a koe, ehara i te mea me whakaatu koe i tētahi tuhinga kotahi hei taunaki i te take kāore nei koe e mau ana i tētahi uwhi mata. Kāore tō haerenga mā te waka tūmatanui e aukatihia. He take whaimana tonu ā ētahi, pēnei i te take hauora, i kore ai e mau uwhi mata. Ehara i te mea me waea atu rānei ki te Pirihimana, me whakamataara rānei koe i te kaihautū rānei, i te kaiwhakahaere rānei, mehemea kua kite koe i tētahi kāore nei i te mau i tētahi uwhi mata. Ka āwhina te nuinga e kaha ana ki te mau uwhi mata i te rerenga o te mate, ka mutu ka mau rātou i ngā uwhi mata i ngā wā me pērā rātou. Mehemea e āta takahia ana e te tangata ngā ture mā te korenga e mau i tētahi uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui me te kore i whaimana o te take, ka whiua pea ia ki te utu ā-hara o te $300, ki te utu rānei nā te kōti i whakatau, atu ki te $1000. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Ehara i te mea me mātua whai uwhi mata. Mā te mau uwhi mata i ngā wā kāore e taea te tīrara tonu i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau. Me takatū tātou ina tūpono puta mai anō a KOWHEORI-19 ki te hapori. Ka pai kia whakaemihia he uwhi mata mō te katoa kei tō kāinga e noho ana i te nuinga o te wā. E whakatenatenahia ana te mau o te uwhi mata i ngā wā kāore e taea te tū tīrara tonu i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, pēnei i te wā kei te hokomaha. Me mau hoki ngā uwhi mata e te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei ngā waka tūmatanui me ngā waka rererangi. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ērā ko ngā tereina, ko ngā pahi me ngā waka kōpiko. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ko ngā kaihautū o ngā waka iti e kawe pāhihi ana pēnei i te tēkehi me Uber . Ehara i te mea me mau: e te tangata e hauā ana, e pāngia ana rānei e te mate hinengaro e uaua ai ki a rātou te uwhi i ō rātou mata e ngā tamariki kāore anō kia 12 tau te pakeke i runga i ngā pahi o te kura e ngā pāhihi o ngā waka iti e kawe pāhihi ana, pēnei i te tēkehi me Uber i ngā haerenga mā runga waka kua āta tāpuia, i ngā haerenga rānei o te tira tāpoi i ngā waka kōpiko i tētahi moutere ki tētahi i ngā rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaikirimana tūmataiti e mahi nei i ngā ratonga rererangi, pēnei i te kaiwhakahaumako whenua mai i te rangi i ngā wā o te whawhati tata, i ngā wā rānei me taunaki rawa te tangata i tōna tuakiri, i ngā wā rānei me kōrero ki tētahi e turi ana. Mēnā ka pā tētahi o ēnei take ki a koe, ehara i te mea me whakaatu koe i tētahi tuhinga kotahi hei taunaki i te take kāore nei koe e mau ana i tētahi uwhi mata. Kāore tō haerenga mā te waka tūmatanui e aukatihia. He take whaimana tonu ā ētahi, pēnei i te take hauora, i kore ai e mau uwhi mata. Ehara i te mea me waea atu rānei ki te Pirihimana, me whakamataara rānei koe i te kaihautū rānei, i te kaiwhakahaere rānei, mehemea kua kite koe i tētahi kāore nei i te mau i tētahi uwhi mata. Ka āwhina te nuinga e kaha ana ki te mau uwhi mata i te rerenga o te mate, ka mutu ka mau rātou i ngā uwhi mata i ngā wā me pērā rātou. Mehemea e āta takahia ana e te tangata ngā ture mā te korenga e mau i tētahi uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui me te kore i whaimana o te take, ka whiua pea ia ki te utu ā-hara o te $300, ki te utu rānei nā te kōti i whakatau, atu ki te $1000. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate Ehara i te mea me mātua mau uwhi mata. Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate Ehara i te mea me mātua mau uwhi mata. Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Kei te Pae Mataara 3 a Tāmakimakaurau. Kei te Pae Mataara 2 te toenga o Aotearoa. He tohutohu mō te noho ki te pae 2 Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Kei te Pae Mataara 3 a Tāmakimakaurau. Kei te Pae Mataara 2 te toenga o Aotearoa. He tohutohu mō te noho ki te pae 2 Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet [PDF, 2.7 MB] The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) [PDF, 97 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 97 KB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] Whāia ōu tapuwae | Track your journey [PDF, 125 KB] Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 119 KB] Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 120 KB] Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | COVID-19 vaccines: What to expect [PDF, 84 KB] Te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: Ngā Pātai e Auau ana te Uia | COVID-19 vaccines: FAQs [PDF, 88 KB] Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | COVID-19 vaccines: After your immunisation [PDF, 80 KB] --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) [PDF, 97 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 97 KB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] --- Section Separator --- Whāia ōu tapuwae | Track your journey [PDF, 125 KB] --- Section Separator --- Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 119 KB] Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 120 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | COVID-19 vaccines: What to expect [PDF, 84 KB] Te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: Ngā Pātai e Auau ana te Uia | COVID-19 vaccines: FAQs [PDF, 88 KB] Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | COVID-19 vaccines: After your immunisation [PDF, 80 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ko te pare atu i te mate korona i Aotearoa, te mahi tiaki rawa i a tātou. Mai i te 11:59pm i te 25 o Kohitātea 2021, katoa ngā tāngata e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa, hāunga anō ērā o Ahitereiria, o Anatātika, o Rarotonga, o ngā Moutere o Maikoronihia, o Whīti, o Kiripati, o ngā Moutere Māhara, o Nauru, o Niu Karetōnia, o Niue, o Parau, o Hāmoa, o ngā Motu Horomona, o Tokerau, o Tonga, o Tuwaru, o Whenuatū, o Uwea me Whutuna, me mātua whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, e 72 hāora i mua i te wehetanga, ka mutu ka whakaatu mai hoki i te tiwhikete taiwhanga pūtaiao, i tētahi atu momo taunakitanga tōtika rānei. E whakaaetia ana hoki te katoa o ngā whakamātau PCR , whakamātau LAMP me ngā whakamātau kita whakamate mō tēnei whakamātau tōmua. Me mahi atu ngā whakamātautau katoa e tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao. E whakaaetia ana hoki ngā tiwhikete tohuora kua tuhia ki reo kē. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko ngā tamariki kāore anō kia rua tau (24 marama) te pakeke. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko te tangata haere mai ki Aotearoa he tiwhikete tohuora tāna e tohu ana kua ora ake ia i te KOWHEORI-19, e kore hoki e pāngia tētahi atu ki taua mate e ia. Ko ngā tāngata haere kāore e taea te whakamātau nā tētahi take hauora, me mātua toro ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehetanga. Me mātua homai e te tākuta he tiwhikete tohuora e whakaatu ana he take hauora kē i kore ai koe e whakamātauria, ā, kāore hoki ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e rere ana koe ki whenua kē mā Aotearoa, ā, kāore koe e puta i te taiwhanga whakawhiti waka rererangi, e whakawāteatia ana koe i te whakamātau tōmua. E kaha ana te whakahau ki te hunga haere kia whakapā atu ki ō rātou kamupene rererangi kei tūpono he whakaritenga anō ā rātou mō ngā whakamātau tōmua. Me mōhio anō hoki ki ngā whakaritenga a ērā atu whenua e whakawhiti atu ai rātou. Mai i te 8 o Huitanguru, katoa ngā pāhihi ka tae mai ki Aotearoa (i tua atu i ērā nō ngā whenua i whakawāteatia), kāore he tohu whakaatu i te korenga o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā rānei he tiwhikete tohuora, tērā pea e whiua ki te whaina, piki atu ki te $1,000. Hei te taunga mai ki Aotearoa, ko ngā tāngata haere mai katoa: me noho ki tētahi puni whakamohoao, whaitua taratahi rānei mō te 14 rā me whakamātau mō te KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0 (arā, i te rā tonu e tae atu ai ki te puni whakamohoao) me noho ki tōna ake rūma kia mōhiotia rā anō te whakatau a te whakamātautau me he tohumate korona i te taenga mai o te tangata, ka haere tōtika atu ki tētahi whaitua taratahi. He werohanga ihu PCR te momo whakamātautau nei. Ka 24-28 hāora kia hoki mai ngā whakataunga whakamātautau. Me he korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, ka noho tonu te tangata ki te puni whakamohoao mō te roanga atu o ngā rā 14. Ka whakamātauria anō i te takiwā o te rā 3 me te rā 12 o tā rātou noho. Mō te katoa tonu o ngā tāngata, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakaae hoki e tō mātou kāhui hauora he iti te tūpono kei te kawea haere te mate korona, kua pāngia rānei ki ētahi atu kātahi anō ka whakaaetia te wehe atu i te puni whakamohoao. Mehemea he mate korona te whakatau, ka tōmua ake te neke i te tangata ki te whaitua taratahi, tēnā i kore ai te whakamātautau i te rā 0. Hei tūwatawata anō te whakamātautau o te rā 0 hei ārai atu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, tae atu ki ōna putanga kētanga hou kua ara ake i tāwāhi, me te tere ake o te horapa haere. Mō ngā tino kōrero o te wā e pā ana ki te mate korona, tēnā peka ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki ngā puni whakamohoao, me ngā whaitua taratahi, haere ki tēnei: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te pare atu i te mate korona i Aotearoa, te mahi tiaki rawa i a tātou. Mai i te 11:59pm i te 25 o Kohitātea 2021, katoa ngā tāngata e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa, hāunga anō ērā o Ahitereiria, o Anatātika, o Rarotonga, o ngā Moutere o Maikoronihia, o Whīti, o Kiripati, o ngā Moutere Māhara, o Nauru, o Niu Karetōnia, o Niue, o Parau, o Hāmoa, o ngā Motu Horomona, o Tokerau, o Tonga, o Tuwaru, o Whenuatū, o Uwea me Whutuna, me mātua whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, e 72 hāora i mua i te wehetanga, ka mutu ka whakaatu mai hoki i te tiwhikete taiwhanga pūtaiao, i tētahi atu momo taunakitanga tōtika rānei. E whakaaetia ana hoki te katoa o ngā whakamātau PCR , whakamātau LAMP me ngā whakamātau kita whakamate mō tēnei whakamātau tōmua. Me mahi atu ngā whakamātautau katoa e tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao. E whakaaetia ana hoki ngā tiwhikete tohuora kua tuhia ki reo kē. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko ngā tamariki kāore anō kia rua tau (24 marama) te pakeke. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko te tangata haere mai ki Aotearoa he tiwhikete tohuora tāna e tohu ana kua ora ake ia i te KOWHEORI-19, e kore hoki e pāngia tētahi atu ki taua mate e ia. Ko ngā tāngata haere kāore e taea te whakamātau nā tētahi take hauora, me mātua toro ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehetanga. Me mātua homai e te tākuta he tiwhikete tohuora e whakaatu ana he take hauora kē i kore ai koe e whakamātauria, ā, kāore hoki ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e rere ana koe ki whenua kē mā Aotearoa, ā, kāore koe e puta i te taiwhanga whakawhiti waka rererangi, e whakawāteatia ana koe i te whakamātau tōmua. E kaha ana te whakahau ki te hunga haere kia whakapā atu ki ō rātou kamupene rererangi kei tūpono he whakaritenga anō ā rātou mō ngā whakamātau tōmua. Me mōhio anō hoki ki ngā whakaritenga a ērā atu whenua e whakawhiti atu ai rātou. Mai i te 8 o Huitanguru, katoa ngā pāhihi ka tae mai ki Aotearoa (i tua atu i ērā nō ngā whenua i whakawāteatia), kāore he tohu whakaatu i te korenga o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā rānei he tiwhikete tohuora, tērā pea e whiua ki te whaina, piki atu ki te $1,000. Hei te taunga mai ki Aotearoa, ko ngā tāngata haere mai katoa: me noho ki tētahi puni whakamohoao, whaitua taratahi rānei mō te 14 rā me whakamātau mō te KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0 (arā, i te rā tonu e tae atu ai ki te puni whakamohoao) me noho ki tōna ake rūma kia mōhiotia rā anō te whakatau a te whakamātautau me he tohumate korona i te taenga mai o te tangata, ka haere tōtika atu ki tētahi whaitua taratahi. He werohanga ihu PCR te momo whakamātautau nei. Ka 24-28 hāora kia hoki mai ngā whakataunga whakamātautau. Me he korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, ka noho tonu te tangata ki te puni whakamohoao mō te roanga atu o ngā rā 14. Ka whakamātauria anō i te takiwā o te rā 3 me te rā 12 o tā rātou noho. Mō te katoa tonu o ngā tāngata, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakaae hoki e tō mātou kāhui hauora he iti te tūpono kei te kawea haere te mate korona, kua pāngia rānei ki ētahi atu kātahi anō ka whakaaetia te wehe atu i te puni whakamohoao. Mehemea he mate korona te whakatau, ka tōmua ake te neke i te tangata ki te whaitua taratahi, tēnā i kore ai te whakamātautau i te rā 0. Hei tūwatawata anō te whakamātautau o te rā 0 hei ārai atu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, tae atu ki ōna putanga kētanga hou kua ara ake i tāwāhi, me te tere ake o te horapa haere. Mō ngā tino kōrero o te wā e pā ana ki te mate korona, tēnā peka ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki ngā puni whakamohoao, me ngā whaitua taratahi, haere ki tēnei: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well --- Section Separator --- Ki te kore e taea e koe te wehe i tō kāinga ki te tiki kai, me whai kia: Tīkina he kai e tō whānau, e ō hoa rānei. Tonoa he kai i te ipurangi i tō hokomaha mā tā rātou ratonga mā te hunga me mātua whai āwhina. Tērā tonu pea ka whai āwhina koe i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ehara i te mea me kiritaki kē koe nā Te Hiranga Tangata. Waeahia te 0800 559 009 Go to MyMSD (external link) Ki te totoa tō hiahia ki te whai kai i ngā hāora e 24-48 e whai ake nei, e pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki tētahi putunga kai o te rohe pātata. Rapua ngā putunga kai me ētahi atu ratonga tuku kai puta noa i Aotearoa (external link) Mēnā kua poroa tō tūranga mahi, kua whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, he āwhina kei Te Hiranga Tangata mō te taha ki ngā utu totoa pēnei i ō te: kai utu noho whare, hei tauira, ko te reti, ko te mōkete ranei, ko te reti rūma, ko te whawhati tata o te whakarite whare, ko te hūnuku whare tapitapi, i ō te whakahou rānei i ngā taputapu ā-whare whawhati tata o te whai rongoā ā-niho whawhati tata o e whai rongoā ā-hauora whakakī kurawai. Te tautoko ā-pūtea, ngā paearu whai wāhi me te ara hei tono, i te pae tukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Whakapā atu rānei ki Te Hiranga Tangata i; Te 0800 559 009 Ngā kaumātua e pakeke ake ana i te 65 tau: 0800 552 002 , ko tēnei tau rānei +64 4 978 1180 Ngā tauira: 0800 88 99 00 www.studylink.govt.nz (external link) E āhei ana tā te hunga turi, tā te hunga kāore e rongo tika ana, tā te hunga kāore hoki e mārama ana te kōrero whakamahi i te Deaf Link i runga i te kore utu Waea whakaahuahia te 0800 621 621 Pātuhihia te 029 286 7170 MSD_Deaf_Services@msd.govt.nz WorkSafe 0800 030 040 , ko tēnei rānei +64 4 897 7699 www.worksafe.govt.nz (external link) www.employment.govt.nz (external link) waeahia rānei te 0800 20 90 20 , tēnei rānei +64 9 969 2950 Te hunga reti 0800 646 483 www.hud.govt.nz (external link) īmērahia rānei te info@hud.govt.nz Ngā ratonga whare taupua 0508 754 163 https://temporaryaccommodation.mbie.govt.nz (external link) Waeahia te tau whawhati tata o te 111 mēnā e inamata ana te mōrearea ōu, o tētahi atu rānei  i te tūkino mai a tētahi, i te hiahia rānei o tētahi ki te tūkino i a ia anō. E hono ai koe ki ngā ratonga tautoko ā-pāpori i tō rohe pātata, waeahia te tau whai āwhina, 211 nei, o Ngā Ratonga ā-Whānau, te 0800 211 211 , toro atu rānei ki www.familyservices.govt.nz/directory/ (external link) He kupu ārahi, he tautoko, he whare haumaru hoki kei Te Punanga Wāhine mēnā kei te pā mai ngā mahi tūkino a tētahi ki tōu ao. 0800 733 843 He ratonga utu-kore te Tau-āwhina o Te Tūkino Kaumātua e wātea ana ki ngā kaumātua mēnā kei te tūkinotia rātou, kei te tūkinotia rānei tētahi atu e mōhiotia ana e rātou. 0800 32 668 65 E whai tautoko ai koe mō te mānukanuka, mō te ahotea, mō te oranga rānei o te hinengaro, waeahia, pātuhihia rānei te 1737 ki te kōrero ki tētahi kua whakangungua ki te āwhina, kāore nei he utu, i ngā hāora e 24 i ia rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki te Tau-āwhina mō te Hinapōuri, ki te 0800 111 757 ki te Tau-āwhina hoki mō te Waipiro me te Whakapōauau, ki te 0800 787 797 . --- Section Separator --- Ki te kore e taea e koe te wehe i tō kāinga ki te tiki kai, me whai kia: Tīkina he kai e tō whānau, e ō hoa rānei. Tonoa he kai i te ipurangi i tō hokomaha mā tā rātou ratonga mā te hunga me mātua whai āwhina. Tērā tonu pea ka whai āwhina koe i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ehara i te mea me kiritaki kē koe nā Te Hiranga Tangata. Waeahia te 0800 559 009 Go to MyMSD (external link) Ki te totoa tō hiahia ki te whai kai i ngā hāora e 24-48 e whai ake nei, e pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki tētahi putunga kai o te rohe pātata. Rapua ngā putunga kai me ētahi atu ratonga tuku kai puta noa i Aotearoa (external link) Mēnā kua poroa tō tūranga mahi, kua whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, he āwhina kei Te Hiranga Tangata mō te taha ki ngā utu totoa pēnei i ō te: kai utu noho whare, hei tauira, ko te reti, ko te mōkete ranei, ko te reti rūma, ko te whawhati tata o te whakarite whare, ko te hūnuku whare tapitapi, i ō te whakahou rānei i ngā taputapu ā-whare whawhati tata o te whai rongoā ā-niho whawhati tata o e whai rongoā ā-hauora whakakī kurawai. Te tautoko ā-pūtea, ngā paearu whai wāhi me te ara hei tono, i te pae tukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Whakapā atu rānei ki Te Hiranga Tangata i; Te 0800 559 009 Ngā kaumātua e pakeke ake ana i te 65 tau: 0800 552 002 , ko tēnei tau rānei +64 4 978 1180 Ngā tauira: 0800 88 99 00 www.studylink.govt.nz (external link) E āhei ana tā te hunga turi, tā te hunga kāore e rongo tika ana, tā te hunga kāore hoki e mārama ana te kōrero whakamahi i te Deaf Link i runga i te kore utu Waea whakaahuahia te 0800 621 621 Pātuhihia te 029 286 7170 MSD_Deaf_Services@msd.govt.nz WorkSafe 0800 030 040 , ko tēnei rānei +64 4 897 7699 www.worksafe.govt.nz (external link) www.employment.govt.nz (external link) waeahia rānei te 0800 20 90 20 , tēnei rānei +64 9 969 2950 Te hunga reti 0800 646 483 www.hud.govt.nz (external link) īmērahia rānei te info@hud.govt.nz Ngā ratonga whare taupua 0508 754 163 https://temporaryaccommodation.mbie.govt.nz (external link) Waeahia te tau whawhati tata o te 111 mēnā e inamata ana te mōrearea ōu, o tētahi atu rānei  i te tūkino mai a tētahi, i te hiahia rānei o tētahi ki te tūkino i a ia anō. E hono ai koe ki ngā ratonga tautoko ā-pāpori i tō rohe pātata, waeahia te tau whai āwhina, 211 nei, o Ngā Ratonga ā-Whānau, te 0800 211 211 , toro atu rānei ki www.familyservices.govt.nz/directory/ (external link) He kupu ārahi, he tautoko, he whare haumaru hoki kei Te Punanga Wāhine mēnā kei te pā mai ngā mahi tūkino a tētahi ki tōu ao. 0800 733 843 He ratonga utu-kore te Tau-āwhina o Te Tūkino Kaumātua e wātea ana ki ngā kaumātua mēnā kei te tūkinotia rātou, kei te tūkinotia rānei tētahi atu e mōhiotia ana e rātou. 0800 32 668 65 E whai tautoko ai koe mō te mānukanuka, mō te ahotea, mō te oranga rānei o te hinengaro, waeahia, pātuhihia rānei te 1737 ki te kōrero ki tētahi kua whakangungua ki te āwhina, kāore nei he utu, i ngā hāora e 24 i ia rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki te Tau-āwhina mō te Hinapōuri, ki te 0800 111 757 ki te Tau-āwhina hoki mō te Waipiro me te Whakapōauau, ki te 0800 787 797 . --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā rongoā ārai Mate Korona | COVID-19 vaccines Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Unstoppable summer toolkit --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Original) Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Short version) To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event activation toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Events checklist [PDF, 7.1 MB] Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Original) Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Short version) --- Section Separator --- To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event activation toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Events checklist [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] --- Section Separator --- These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] --- Section Separator --- Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources